Dr. Hoang Thi Hoa (Editor)
Le Thi Huyen, Tran Thi Thu Hang, Hoang Hue Chi, Do Hanh Dung,
Pham Minh Hien, Hoang Thu Giang
English fi
f— 7 3 ® .
= \ Business Studies / =x
SVUY RE— te wr
3 AN Hh y focus
A 44 5 L | 4 ow strategy
ZO fa EE ol TING Process ;
, ANY RAL | jzation® competition
AAR Y A NAT :
( \\ \ A ie \ I
URN al IE
: () y I \ FH 2% t : target
AE EN -
ANN 5 Po \¢ target Veil
We | | hk 13 - : money st
ENA | a Serr
A - BAY w- b a NDeTIY
8 y | Poo TE IAN | 2
.) DAN TRI PUBLISHER





Hoang Thi Hoa (PhD)
Le Thi Huyen, Tran Thi Thu Hang, Hoang Hue Chi, Do Hanh Dung,
Pham Minh Hien, Hoang Thu Giang
English for
Business Studies
DAN TRI PUBLISHER


2 Pusiness Studies


PREFACE
This book is crafted for students with at least an intermediate level of English who
are keen on mastering the language of business and economics. Whether you're
preparing for a career in business, aiming to enhance your professional
communication, or pursuing academic studies in this field, this course is designed to
equip you with the essential vocabulary, concepts, and skills needed to navigate the
business world effectively.
In the pages that follow, you will explore a comprehensive array of topics
including Management, Production, Marketing, Finance, and Economics. Each of the
17 units is carefully structured to provide a well-rounded learning experience.
Reading Texts: Each unit begins with an informative reading passage that offers
an overview of the topic, introduces key concepts, and highlights relevant technical
vocabulary. Accompanying comprehension and vocabulary exercises, along with
discussion activities, are designed to reinforce your understanding and application of
the material.
Listening Activities: To enhance your auditory skills, this course includes
listening exercises featuring a variety of accents from native English speakers and
speakers from different European and Asian countries. These activities will help you
become adept at understanding diverse English pronunciations and communication styles.
Speaking Activities: You will engage in discussions, case studies, role plays, and
presentations to develop your speaking abilities. These activities are aimed at
improving your confidence and proficiency in articulating business concepts and
participating in professional conversations.
Writing Activities: The course also focuses on refining your writing skills through
tasks such as summaries, reports, and critical essays. These exercises are designed to
help you produce clear, concise, and effective business documents.
We encourage you to actively participate in all the activities and take full
advantage of the opportunities provided to practice and apply your skills. Your
feedback is invaluable to us, and we warmly invite you to share your thoughts and
suggestions. Your contributions will help us continue to improve and create better
editions in the future.
Pusiness Studies: 3)


4 Business Studies


CONTENTS
REE ACE mtn ni Le)
Unit 2 WORK AND MOTI AT ON 23
Unit 3 COMPANY: STRUCTURE re BE 30)
Unit 4EMANAGING ACROSS CULL TUR Ee eS 53
Unit 5. RECRUITMENT ........ccoommmvenrresssinnrnssecesssmsessssessssssssssssssssssssssssssssssessssssssssssseesssssos 66
Unit 6. CLASSIFICATION OF BUSINESSES..........cccovetrssssusssssessmssmssssasmsssssnssssssasessessassnses 85
Unit 2 PRODUCTION ii a E00)
Unit 8. LOGISTICS ....ccovvvrrrrrsssnnnnsessrsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssasssssssmssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssnensssss 114
Unit 10 MARKETING re tens 142.
m2 BAN KT ee LL ee CMe EME 17
Unit 13. ACCOUNTING AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ........oooovovrvvrveeressnrnnrreenennn. 184
Unit [45THE BUSINESS CYCLE Sm i es nn Li i: 199
Unit 15. CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY .......coocovssssvvevrrnmsssrsnsseeresssssnsnnoenennns 213
Unit 16. EFFICIENCY AND EMPLOYMENT ......ccoeecvvvevvummmnnenneseemssssssssssnnssssssssssssssnnnensennns 227
Unit 17. INTERNATIONAL TRADE... tii hie tastes mses artes 238
Pusiness Studies: 5


6 Pusiness Studies


UNIT 1
MANAGEMENT
LEARNING OBJECTIVES mea
After you have read and studied this unit, you
should be able to oh
= Explain the five functions of management.
= Discuss what makes a good manager. V
= Explain the differences between a manager
and a leader. oe don ey wren rtd yom ol
tL
KEY TERMS
RE ER
Management: The process used to accomplish organizational goals through planning,
organizing, leading, and controlling people and other organizational resources.
Manager: An individual who is in charge of a certain group off tasks, or a certain area
or department of a business.
Chief Executive Officer: The most senior manager responsible for the overall
performance and success of a company.
Planning: A management function that includes anticipating trends and determining the
best strategies and tactics to achieve organizational goals and objectives.
Organizing: A management function that includes designing the structure of the
organization and creating conditions and systems in which everyone and everything
work together fo achieve the organization's goals and objectives.
Leading: Creafing a vision for the organization and guiding, training, coaching, and
motivating others to work effectively to achieve the organization's goals and objectives.
Controlling: A management function that involves establishing clear standards to
determine whether or not an organization is progressing toward its goals and objectives,
rewarding people for doing a good job, and taking corrective action if they are not. l
Pusiness Studies 7


LEAD- IN
- Which business leaders do you admire for their managerial skills? What are
these skills?
- Do managers have a good reputation in your country? Or are they made fun of in
jokes, cartoons, and television series? If so, why do you think this is?
- Which of the famous managers below do you find the most interesting and
impressive?
am Ne | Elon Reeve Musk is a business magnate and investor. He is the
Jig Son founder, CEO, and Chief Engineer at SpaceX; angel investor,
$e) CEO, and product architect of Tesla, Inc.; founder of The Boring
ad Company, and co-founder of Neuralink and OpenAl. With an
estimated net worth of around US$262 billion as of September 10,
2022, Musk is the wealthiest person in the world according to both
the Bloomberg Billionaires Index and Forbes' real-time
billionaires list.
Mark Elliot Zuckerberg is an American business magnate,
internet entrepreneur, and philanthropist. He is known for co- =~
founding the social media website Facebook and its parent ¥ > v
company Meta Platforms (formerly Facebook, Inc.), of which
he is the chairman, chief executive officer, and controlling 3 >
shareholder. ho
= 9 J Timothy Donald Cook is an American business executive and
p engineer who has been the chief executive officer of Apple Inc.
at i since 2011. Cook previously served as the company's chief
operating officer under its co-founder Steve Jobs. Cook joined
Apple in March 1998 as a senior vice president for worldwide
operations, and then served as the executive vice president for
worldwide sales and operations. He was made the chief
executive on August 24, 2011.
8 Pusiness Studies


Mary Teresa Barra is an American businesswoman who has
been the chair and chief executive officer of General Motors _ 4
since January 15, 2014. She is the first female CEO of a 'Big re
Three' automaker. In December 2013, GM named her to L 4 -
succeed Daniel Akerson as CEO. Prior to being named CEO, %
Barra was executive vice president of global product N
development, purchasing, and supply chain. W
READING 1
The difference between a manager and a leader
What is a manager?
A manager is a person in an organization who is responsible for carrying out the
four functions of management, including planning, organizing, leading and controlling.
You will notice that one of the functions is leadership, so you might ask yourself if it
would be safe to assume that all managers are leaders. Theoretically, yes - all managers
would be leaders if they effectively carry out their leadership responsibilities to
communicate, motivate, inspire and encourage employees towards a higher level of
productivity. However, not all managers are leaders simply because not all managers
can do all of those items just listed. An employee will follow the directions of a
manager for how to perform a job because they have to, but an employee will
voluntarily follow the directions of a leader because they believe in who they are as a
person, what they stand for and for the manner in which they are inspired by their
leader. A manager becomes a manager by virtue of their position, and subordinates will
follow the manager because of his or her job description and title.
Because managers are responsible for carrying out the four functions of
management, their primary concern is to accomplish organizational goals. Managers get
paid to get things done in organizations. As such, the manager is accountable for
themselves as well as the behavior and performance of his or her employees. A manager
has the authority and power to hire, promote, discipline and fire employees based on
those behaviors and performance. Management is about efficiency and getting results
through systems, processes, procedures, controls and structure.
‘What is a leader?
Perhaps the greatest separation between management and leadership is that
leaders do not have to hold a management position. That is, a person can become a
Pusiness Studies 9


leader without a formal title. Any individual can become a leader because the basis of
leadership is on the personal qualities of the leader. People are willing to follow the
leader because of who he or she is and what the leader stands for, not because they have
to due to the authority bestowed onto him or her by the organization. The leader will
show passion and personal investment in the success of his or her followers reaching
their goals, which may be different from organizational goals.
A leader has no formal, tangible power over their followers. Power is awarded to
the leader on a temporary basis and is contingent upon the leader's ability to continue to
motivate and inspire followership. Notice the shift in terminology here: managers have
subordinates, while leaders have followers. Subordinates do not have a choice but to
listen to the demands and wishes of their managers, but following is (and always will
be) a voluntary choice for those who follow a leader. Those who no longer wish to
follow the leader will simply stop. That is, if an employee initially sees his or her
manager as a leader and eventually ceases to be inspired by that manager, the employee
will still obey the manager, but only because the employee is required to do so, not
because he or she wants to.
Leadership is about effectiveness through trust, inspiration and people. Leaders
often challenge the status quo that managers spend much of their time upholding to
bring innovation to organizations. Leadership is visionary, change-savvy, creative, agile
and adaptive. Managers are concerned with the bottom line, while leaders spend time
looking at the horizon.
1. How can a leader lose power?
A. If the leader fails to motivate and inspire his/her followers
B. If the leader is too personally invested in his/her cause
C. If the leader takes his/her position too seriously and devotes too much time to it
D. If the leader takes the time to invest in his/her followers
2. How are managers awarded their power and authority?
A. By virtue of their position
B. As a result of their education and training
C. By their personal qualities
D. As a result of their personality
3. Which of these statements is relevant for the relationship between subordinates
and managers?
10 Pusiness Studies


A. Managers' main objectives are ensuring efficiency and getting results through
systems, processes, procedures, controls and structure.
B. Subordinates will follow managers because of their job description and title.
C. Managers are accountable for themselves as well as the behavior and
performance of their employees.
D. All of these answers are correct.
4. Individuals become leaders based on their :
A. personal qualities B. education and training
C. position in a company D. professional qualifications
5. Which of these describes the primary concern of a manager?
A. Increasing personal gain
B. Ensuring subordinates are happy
C. Building a strong network of employees
D. Accomplishing organizational goals
READING 2
The role and functions of management
All organizations, including businesses, have managers. They may not be called
managers because different titles can be used - leader, director, head teacher, and so on.
Whatever their title the tasks of all managers are very similar, no matter what the
organization. If you are a student in a school or college or if you are in full-time
employment, the managers of your organization will, at some time, have to fulfil the
following functions.
Planning
Planning for the future of the organization involves setting aims or targets, for
example: ‘The school will aim to increase its sixth form to over 200 students in two
years' time' or 'We should plan to increase sales of our new fruit juice range by 50 per
cent in three years'
These aims or targets will give the organization a sense of direction or purpose.
There will be a common feeling in the organization of having something to work
towards. It is a poor manager who does not plan for the future at all.
Pusiness Studies: 11


In addition to these aims, a manager must also plan for the resources which will
be needed. For example: "To achieve our aim of increasing student numbers in the sixth
form, we will need to build a new sixth form center' or 'Increased advertising
expenditure will be needed to increase sales of our fruit juices’ These are two examples
of strategies which are designed to help the organization achieve the aims set for it.
Organizing
A manager cannot do everything. Tasks must be delegated to others in the
organization. These people must have the resources to be able to do these tasks
successfully. It is therefore the manager's responsibility to organize people and
resources effectively.
An organizational chart can help to show who has the authority to do different
jobs. It also helps to make sure that specialization occurs and that two people do not end
up doing the same task. An effective manager will organize people and resources very
carefully indeed.
Coordinating
Coordinating means ‘bringing together’. A manager may be very good at planning
and organizing but may have failed to ‘bring people in the organization together. This is
a real danger with the functional form of organization. Different departments can be
working away in their own specialist area without making contact with people from
other departments. For example, there is no point in the Marketing department planning
the launch of a new product unless they have worked with (coordinated with) the
Operations department. It is the Operations department that will have to produce the
product at the right time, in the right quantities.
A good manager will therefore make sure that all departments in the organization
work together to achieve the plans originally set by the manager.
In the example above, this could be done by regular meetings between people in
the different departments. Alternatively, a project team could have been set up to
develop and launch the new product. The team would be made up of people from
different departments.
Commanding
Many people think that this is all managers do! In fact, the task of management is
more concerned with guiding, leading and supervising people than just telling them
what to do - although this may be important too. Managers have to make sure that all
supervisors and workers are keeping to targets and deadlines. Instructions and guidance
12 Pusiness Studies


must be provided by managers and it is also their responsibility to make sure that the
tasks are carried out by people below them in the organization.
Controlling
This is a never-ending task of management. Managers must try to measure and
evaluate the work of all individuals and groups to make sure that they are on target.
There is little point in planning and organizing if managers then fail to check that the
original aims are being met. If it seems that certain groups are failing to do what is
expected of them, then managers may have to take some corrective action. This is not
necessarily disciplining staff - although that might be important. There might be reasons
for poor performance other than inefficient workers - it is the manager's job to find out
why targets are not being met and then to correct the problem.
Do you now have a clearer idea of what managers do? Management is not easy to
define, but the list of tasks above helps to demonstrate the varied and important work
that good managers should be doing.
From studying the list of points above, it should also become clear why
management is necessary to any organization. Without clear and effective management,
a business is going to lack a sense of control and direction, coordination between
departments, leading to wastage of effort » control of employees, organization of
resources, leading to low output and sales. In short, without management to take the
business forward, the business will drift and eventually fail.
Read the text and complete the following notes about the role of a manager.
A manager has responsibility for resources and decision making. The role of
managers includes:
Planning
Setting (1) .................. and (2) .......... for the organization. E.g. to increase
market share by 2%.
Organizing
Managing people and (3) .................... effectively towards achieving the aims
of the organization
Making sure staff do not perform overlapping (4) ...........ccccovvereernins
Coordinating
Pusiness Studies 13


(5) +evvveeeeeeee... people and departments together so that they (6) ................
towards (7) ..................... aims.
Commanding
Managers are more like to (8) ..........., lead and supervise people than just tell
them what to do.
Controlling
Checking that the (9) ............................ are being met and appraising (10)
CASE STUDY 1
Naomi is a student at a sixth form college. She recently took part in a work
shadowing exercise to find out what it is like to be a manager. Work shadowing means
that a student follows a manager for a day or more to experience the work that they do.
Naomi 'shadowed' Sabrina Choolun, who is the manager of the sportswear section in
Suresave plc, a large department store. Naomi kept the following diary for one day.
08:30 Attended meeting with other departmental heads and Chief Executive to agree
targets for the next two years. Departmental heads told to plan their own strategy
to meet these goals.
09:15 Two staff members failed to turn up for work. Sabrina asked other staff to cover
these absences by working longer shifts today
10:00 Meeting with Sales Manager from big sports manufacturer. Sabrina discussed
the range of goods she may purchase next year to meet the store’s targets.
11:00 New member of staff did not cope well with awkward customer. When customer
had gone, Sabrina reminded the shop assistant of the correct procedure that
should be followed. Asked worker always follow company policy in these
matters
14:30 Computer printouts of individual staff sales figures were studied. One worker in
particular has failed to meet sales targets and it was agreed with him that further
product training was necessary.
16:00 Email received from Sabrina’s line manager. There was a problem with another
department selling clothing including sports clothes. It was now possible for
customers to find the same goods in the store in two departments at different
14 Pusiness Studies


prices! Sabrina needed to meet with the other departmental manager to agree on
a common policy.
For each of the tasks that Sabrina carried out, identify whether it was concerned
with: planning, organizing, coordinating, commanding or controlling.
CASE STUDY 2
Umeel is retiring after 25 years of managing his own restaurant. It is a very
successful business. He employs 25 trained staff and needs to recruit a new manager.
After advertising the job, he must decide between two applicants. He has gathered the
following information about them:
On the basis of this information, which person would you choose for the
manager’s job? Justify your answer.
Details Person A Person B
Age 35 55
Education Business degree A levels
Restaurant experience 3 years as junior manager. 20 years as chef and then 5 years
as manager.
Main business skills Motivating staff, good Cooking, ordering right amount
communicator. of stocks.
“Describe your main “Iam a natural leader and | am “I am a very hard worker. | enjoy
personal qualities’ ambitious for myself and giving people pleasure with the
. the restaurant.” food 1 cook.”
“What plans would you have ‘I would aim to double its size and ‘I would like to encourage staff to
for the restaurant?” employ more staff.’ cook even higher quality food."
VOCABULARY
EXERCISE 1. Match up the following words and definitions.
1. consultant A. aplan for achieving success
> erisis B. anew idea or method
: o C. a person with a less important position in an
3. innovation I
organization
4. objective (noun) D. a person who provides expert advice to a company
5. promotion E. asituation of danger or difficulty
6. public sector F. something you plan to do or achieve
7. strategy G. the section of the economy under government control
. H. when someone is raised to a higher or more
8. subordinate . > a _— eg
important position
Pusiness Sudiies 15


EXERCISE 2. Use the word combinations below to complete the sentences.
allocate deal with make supervise set
resources crises decisions subordinates objectives
perform tasks measure performance perform tasks
1. After an organization has ................, it has to make sure that it achieves
them.
2. Managers have to find the best way to .................. all the human, physical
and capital available to them.
3. Some people ................... better on their own while others work better in
teams.
4. Managers .................. the work of their .................. and try to develop
their abilities.
5. Managers ............ the .............of their staff to see whether they are
reaching their targets.
6. Top managers have to be prepared to ............. if they occur and then have to
EXERCISE 3. Complete the text using these verbs.
analyze communicate contribute form use
improve measure commercialize risk divide
select train understand work out perform
What is management?
You want me to explain what management is? Well, I guess I can manage that!
Actually, management as we (1) ............... it today is a fairly recent idea. Most
economists in the eighteenth and nineteenth centuries, for example, wrote about factors
of production such as land, labor and capital, and about supply and demand, as if these
were impersonal and objective economic forces which left no room for human action.
An exception was Jean-Baptiste Say, who invented the term “entrepreneur”, the person
who sees opportunities to (2) ................ resources in more productive ways.
16 Pusiness Studies


Entrepreneurs are people who are alert to so-far undiscovered profit opportunities.
They perceive opportunities to (3) ........................ new technologies and products
that will serve the market better than it is currently being served by their competitors.
They are happy to (4) ................ their own or other people’s capital. They are
frequently unconventional, innovative people. But entrepreneurship isn’t the same as
management, and most managers aren’t entrepreneurs.
So, what’s management? Well, it’s essentially a matter of organizing people.
Managers, especially senior managers, have to set objectives for their organization, and
then (5) ............. how to achieve them. This is true of the managers of business
enterprises, government departments, educational institutions, and sports teams,
although for government services, universities and so on we usually talk about
administrators and administration rather than managers and management. Managers (6)
<ivviieeeeen..... the activities of the organization and the relations among them. They (7)
eveeereenn..... the work into distinct activities and then into individual jobs. They (8)
tiveeeeeenne...... people to manage these activities and perform the jobs. And they often
need to make the people responsible for performing individual jobs (9) ...................
effective teams.
Managers have to be good at communication and motivation. They need to (10)
veeeeeeeen...... the organization’s objectives to the people responsible for attaining them.
They have to motivate their staff to work well, to be productive, and to (11)
teiiiieeiiiiiens...... Something to the organization. They make decisions about pay and
promotion.
Managers also have to (12) ...................... the performance of their staff, and
to ensure that the objectives and performance targets set for the whole organization and
for individual employees are reached. Furthermore, they have to (13) ...........ccouuunnnes
and develop their staff so that their performance continues to (14)
Some managers obviously (15) ...................... these tasks better than others.
Most achievements and failures in business are the achievements or failures of
individual managers.
Pusiness Studies 17


LISTENING
Listening 1: Listen to the following conversation and complete the minutes
below, in note form
Minutes of Senior Management Meeting - 2/4/88 - 11.30
Subject: «...iieeiiiiiiciincnoiaes
Present: Don Aiken, Patricia White, Jonathan Laidlaw,
William Cooper
CR lh Se SE
D.A. wanted to know if the staff were happy; and, if not, what could be
done about it?
P.W. thought that morale was very low at present. Some people were
worried that. ....coevuieernniieneeeeoaiiectanereanssorannosenenn o
J.L. pointed out another problem affecting morale — ........c..oenvinnns
D.A. added that last year the company 10St .......cocveuiininrnencnnnnnn
ee eeeiaeeaiiiaeeesaiaseasaa... DECAUSE OF Lillia
W.C. reminded us that in his department ............ccciimmeiiieiineiinns
Pol. SUGGEST L.iueuerne tee eee
With questions SUCh aS ....cuiuiuiininiinaninr iinet
W.C. agreed with P.W. He said it would show that management were
concerned about staff feelings and problems— so it would be good
for morale.
J.L. also liked P.W.'s idea, but stressed that .............ooieeiiiinn
TE NOE, soins covivisanos venom aosssnsrsansses snseseennnsins tous b
D.A. noted J.L.'s point and said that we must bear it in mind when the
survey is prepared.
18 Pusiness Studies


Listening 2: Listen again and fill in the gaps in these sentences from the
conversation
1. ceoeeveseenens the oe... I'd say that morale's very low at the moment.
2.YOu ....cccouuu.y the ................ that we've just laid off two hundred or so workers?
3. What are you ............cccoorevuesrreneene.. Jonathan?
45M that's sola fora 0s, Imustiadmits
5. Ithink I'm ..................... the ee... nOW, and it's not a very pretty one.
6And you know, Iimay have or ee i Lo tL J we the answer.
7. A survey could tell us what's .............. coccereercuennenn.. in this firm.
8. Everybody must feel free to speak the truth, or else the data won't be ..........
Jonson asses asa vetnuses LOSE
Listening 3: Listen to the following conversation and complete the memorandum
below
To: George Holbrook
From: Vanessa McIntyre
SUD] Ch eT hr tothe LB ees
RalphtHarristhas justinformed ime that rn en
Apparently, this regrettable delay has been caused by .......ccccocovvviiviiiiiciiiiiiiicr
Ralph says they still haven't managed to develop a biscuit which crackles when you bite
into it.
Ralph now estimates that his department will not have solved this problem satisfactorily
Naturally, this will make it impossible for Us to .......cirrrrrvrireerriveimeeeeessssssssssansssisssens
In view of these unfortunate circumstances, | would suggest that our best course of
action wouldibsifolpostponeithe launch.
Could we meet to discuss this as soon as possible?
ie
Pusiness Studies 19


Lh gyms og
EE
§ N-GAN TE
Sm B's AT
Listening 4: Listen again and fill in the gaps in these sentences from the
conversation
Lo WETE c.svicsiissusassississississssssisssissrasassssssissssnioss: SOME problems, I'm afraid.
2. And they've taken it home and ................... it ..................... on their children.
3. Good heavens! That means we'll never ..................... it ................... the market
by lillie smrnanurnmnarss
4. Even so, I'm NOt GOING 10 .......cvueeerueuns verrcicireureereanes, VANESSA
§ OKT ciuissdississsnnsinisssisssrssin BNGBUING sovssssssinssvsissnss GEOT EE:
Listening 5: Listen to the following conversation and answer the questions below.
1. What is Marion unhappy about?
2. Why was last Friday such an important day?
3. What did Marion have to do last Sunday?
4. According to Polly, Gerald is extremely good at planning his time. Note down
the things he does to make the most effective use of his time.
UNIT REVIEW
1. What is a manager?
2. What can a manager do with the subordinates when considering their
performance and behaviors?
3. What is a leader?
4. Why is it possible for anyone to become a leader?
5. How is a manager different from a leader?
6. What are the five common roles of a manager? Explain them briefly.
20 Pusiness Studies


WRITING
Task 1: Write an essay of at least 250 words about the following topic.
Controlling is a management function that ensures organizational goals are met
by monitoring performance and implementing corrective actions. While it is essential
for maintaining standards, it can also be seen as restrictive by employees.
Examine the role of controlling in management and how it affects both
organizational performance and employee morale.
Your examination should include the advantages and potential disadvantages of
the controlling function, supported by examples from your Business Studies Course.
Pusiness Studies 21


Task 2: Write an essay of at least 250 words about the following topic.
Organizing is a critical management function that involves arranging resources
and tasks to achieve organizational objectives efficiently. However, the way resources
are organized can significantly impact productivity and workplace culture.
Analyze the role of organizing in management and how different organizational
structures can influence an organization’s effectiveness.
Your analysis should include a comparison of at least two organizational
structures, with examples from your Business Studies Course.
22 Pusiness Studies


UNIT 2
WORK AND MOTIVATION
LEARNING OBJECTIVES on
After you have read and studied this unit, you Horus west
should be able to =
i
: ay S)
= Discuss the importance of motivation. < (=
= Compare and then summarize various theories . V/
yer ay
of motivation. AN ENR 3
= Know how to motivate people in specific
Evans FE
KEY TERMS
Motivation: factors that influence the behavior of workers towards achieving business
goals. Motivation can be increased by:
a. monetary rewards
b. non-monetary rewards
c. introducing ways fo give job satisfaction.
Job satisfaction: The enjoyment a worker gets from feeling that they have done a good
job. There are three ways to motivate workers to be more committed to their jobs and
work more effectively:
- Job rotation (swapping workers round and only doing a specific task for a limited
time before swapping round again).
- Job enlargement (extra tasks are added to the job to make it more interesting)
- Job enrichment (adding tasks that require more skill and/or responsibility)
Theory X: The average person does not like work. Workers must be constantly
supervised so they will work. Motivation is from external factors, e.g. pay schemes where
the workers are paid more for increased output.
Theory Y: The average person is motivated by internal factors. To motivate workers, you
need to find ways to help workers take an interest in their work, e.g. give rewards,
Pusiness Studies 23


incentives.
Maslow's hierarchy of needs: A theory of motivation which states that five categories of
human needs dictate an individual's behavior. Those needs are physiological needs,
safety needs, love and belonging needs, esteem needs, and self-actualization needs.
Frederick Herzberg’s motivation theory: Humans have two sets of needs: one is for the
basic needs, which he called hygiene factors or needs, and the second is for a human
being to be able to grow psychologically, which he called motivational needs or
motivators.
Hygiene factors: The factors that must be present in the workplace to prevent job
dissatisfaction.
LEAD- IN
One of the most important responsibilities of a manager is to motivate the people
who report to him. But how? What kinds of things motivate you?
‘Which of the following factors would be important for you in your choice of a
job? Classify them in order of importance.
= good remuneration (salary, commission, bonuses, perks) good working
relations with your line
® manager and colleagues
= good working conditions (a large, light, quiet office; efficient secretaries)
= job security
= the possibility of promotion
= a challenging job
= responsibility
= contact with people
= a belief in what the organization does a job in which you can make a difference
= opportunities to travel (business class!)
= long holidays/vacations
24 Pusiness Studies


ne amiore hips the
Promotion ) (jersey ae
Money Cpe espera
—— Eo £ Ey
=F $4 @7
3 q isd \
oat [nl GARE
5 'e1é ® -§
a IX & So &
3 | ® Sq W»
Ji Ll /
~ Vo
Aol A | 1 Vr a \ mm
Ey A NTT | | \
TTY ail | |
|| 11 | Comm
BER | EEE. J
u
Discussion: Attitudes to work
Which of the following statements do you agree with?
1. People dislike work and avoid it if they can.
2. Work is necessary to people's psychological well-being.
3. People avoid responsibility and would rather be told what to do.
4. People are motivated mainly by money.
5. Most people are far more creative than their employers realize.
6. People are motivated by fear of losing their job.
7. People want to be interested in their work and, given the right conditions, they
will enjoy it.
8. Under the right conditions, most people will accept responsibility and will want
to realize their own potential.
Pusiness Studies 25


READING 1
Theory X and Theory Y
The statements on the previous page can be separated into two groups reflecting
two very different ways in which employers can treat their employees. Douglas
McGregor, an American expert on the psychology of work, summarized these two
approaches and named them Theory X and Theory Y. Read the text below and classify
the statements according to which theory they support.
seme] + [7 [5 [o [a [er [+]
me ] | | [ | [ T [
In The Human Side of Enterprise, Douglas McGregor outlined two opposing
theories of work and motivation. What he calls Theory X is the rather pessimistic
approach to workers and working which assumes that people are lazy and will avoid
work and responsibility if they can. Consequently, workers have to be closely
supervised and controlled, and told what to do. They have to be both threatened, for
example with losing their job, and rewarded with incentives, probably monetary ones
such as a pay rise or bonuses. Theory X assumes that most people are incapable of
taking responsibility for themselves and have to be looked after. It has traditionally been
applied, for example, by managers of factory workers in large-scale manufacturing.
Theory Y, on the contrary, assumes that most people have a psychological need to
work, and given the right conditions - job security, financial rewards - they will be
creative, ambitious and self-motivated by the satisfaction of doing a good job. Theory Y
is probably more applicable to skilled professionals and what Peter Drucker called
“knowledge workers” - managers, specialists, programmers, scientists, engineers - than
people in unskilled jobs.
McGregor's two theories are based on Abraham Maslow's famous “hierarchy of
needs”. Theory X relates to the basic, lower order’ needs at the bottom of the hierarchy,
such as financial security, while Theory Y relates to “higher order” needs such as
esteem (achievement, status and responsibility) and self-actualization (personal growth
and fulfilment) that can be pursued if basic needs are satisfied.
McGregor is widely considered to have laid the foundations for the modern
people-centred view of management. However, Maslow spent a year studying a
Californian company that used Theory Y, and concluded that there are many people
who are not looking for responsibility and achievement at work. There will always be
26 Pusiness Studies


people with little self-discipline, who need security and certainty and protection against
the burden of responsibility, so it is impossible to simply replace the “authoritarian”
Theory X with the “progressive” Theory Y.
Comprehension
Read the text again and answer these questions.
1. According to Theory X, why do employees have to be closely controlled?
2. According to Theory Y, why should employers give their workers responsibilities?
3. Why did Maslow criticize Theory Y?
READING 2
'Satisfiers' and 'motivators'
Another well-known theorist of the psychology of work, Frederick Herzberg, has
argued that good working conditions are not sufficient to motivate people. Read the text
and find out why.
It is logical to suppose that things like
good labour relations, good working Self-actualization
conditions, job security, good wages, and bd osc)
benefits such as sick pay, paid holidays and a Bo LEER
pension are incentives that motivate workers. Love and belonging 2
But in The Motivation to Work, Frederick hee A
Herzberg argued that such conditions - or Saikp! fu Pop—p—
‘hygiene factors' - do not in fact motivate Physiological needs
workers. They are merely ‘satisfiers’ - or, more denn,
importantly, 'dissatisfiers' where they do not low's hi
ow's hierarchy of need
exist. Workers who have them take them for Mas cy ?
granted. As Herzberg put it, 'A reward once
given becomes a right.’ 'Motivators', on the contrary, include things such as having a
challenging and interesting job, recognition and responsibility, promotion, and so on.
Unless people are motivated, and want to do a good job, they will not perform well.
However, there are and always will be plenty of boring, repetitive and mechanical jobs,
and lots of unskilled workers who have to do them. How can managers motivate people
in such jobs? One solution is to give them some responsibilities, not as individuals but
as part of a team. For example, some supermarkets combine office staff, the people who
fill the shelves, and the people who work on the checkout tills into a team and let them
Pusiness Studies 27


decide what product lines to stock, how to display them, and so on. Other employers
encourage job rotation, as doing four different repetitive jobs a day is better than doing
only one. Many people now talk about the importance of a company's shared values or
corporate culture, with which all the staff can identify: for example being the best hotel
chain, or hamburger restaurant chain, or airline, or making the best, safest, most user-
friendly, most ecological or most reliable products in a particular field. Unfortunately,
not all the competing companies in an industry can seriously claim to be the best.
Comprehension
1. Are these sentences TRUE or FALSE?
a. Herzberg argued that ‘hygiene factors’ motivate workers.
b. Challenging jobs and responsibility are hygiene factors.
c. Some unskilled jobs will always be boring and repetitive.
d. Workers might be motivated by having responsibilities as part of a team.
e. Job rotation can make a day’s work more interesting.
f. You can always motivate workers by telling them that they work for the best
company in the field.
2. Find the words in the text that mean the following
a. interactions between employers and employees, or managers and workers
b. knowing that there is little risk of losing one's employment
c. money paid (per hour or day or week) to manual workers
d. advantages that come with a job, apart from pay
e. things that encourage people to do something
f. to be raised to a higher rank or better job
g. without any particular abilities acquired by training
h. regularly switching between different tasks
i. acompany’s shared attitudes, beliefs, practices and work relationships
CASE STUDY 1
Patel Fashions is a retail business which sells women's clothes. It employs 15
sales staff who work in the shop and five more who work in the offices.
There is one shop manager who is in charge of the business. Each of the sales staff
has a specific job and they only do this one task. For example, some just serve
customers at the pay desk, some look after the fitting room, and others look after the
28 Pusiness Studies


clothes on display. Employees keep leaving and the shop manager regularly has to
advertise for new employees. 'I do not like having to spend so much time interviewing
applicants for sales assistant jobs. I wish the employees would not keep leaving, said
Marie, the shop manager.
a. Discuss the different financial and non-financial benefits the store manager
could use to improve motivation at the shop, in order to prevent workers from leaving
so regularly. Which would be the best method for her to employ and why?
b. Would job rotation be the best method for Marie to use in order to increase job
satisfaction? Explain your answer.
c. State which management style you would suggest for Theory X managers and
Theory Y managers. Explain your choice.
CASE STUDY 2
The senior managers of Farook Fashions (FF) are concerned about the fall in
productivity at one of its factories - Factory A. The company’s Fluman Resources
Director has produced the following data for last year.
Average for FF’s
Ee ua i RE
Average weekly productivity per worker
Average number of days’ absence per
worker
Factory A employs 500 workers and is the oldest of FFs factories. Workers in
Factory A have often complained to the factory manager about their poor working
conditions compared to workers in FF’s other factories.
In a recent meeting when this issue was raised again, the factory manager said: ‘I
do not understand why you keep complaining about working conditions. You all have
well-paid jobs. All factories are noisy and dirty places, this one is no different.” This
was a typical comment from a manager who was not very well liked by the workers. Fie
never showed any interest in them. The only time he spoke to them was to give orders
or to tell them off for breaking one of the many rules he had introduced when he
became manager 20 years ago.
Pusiness Studies 29


1. Identify two factors that suggest workers in Factory A are less well motivated
than in FF’s other factories.
2. Calculate the percentage of workers who left Factory A in the last year.
3. Do you think that money is the cause of poor motivation at Factory A? Justify
your answer.
4. How might the senior managers at FF use Herzberg’s two-factor theory to
improve productivity at Factory A?
VOCABULARY
EXERCISE 1. Complete the text using the verbs in the box:
achieve actualize avoid earn
exist expect maximize perform
pursue require reward set
One of the most important elements of any manager’s job is to motivate his or her
subordinates to do their jobs well and to be productive. Two very well-known theories
of motivation among managers are those of Abraham Maslow and Frederick Herzberg.
In Motivation and Personality (1954), Maslow identified what he considered to be
a hierarchy of basic human needs and classified them under five headings. First come
physiological needs such as food, water, air and sleep. If these needs are not satisfied,
people will not (1) ................... other needs. The second category is security needs:
clothing, shelter, the necessity to be free from danger and physical pain, and - most
relevant to management - to be free from the threat of losing one’s job.
‘Where these first two categories of needs are satisfied, people feel social needs: to
belong to a group, to be liked and loved and accepted by others. Next come esteem
needs: people do not only want to be accepted, they want to have self-respect and to be
esteemed by others. Maslow believes that people all (2) ................... power and
status, respect and self-confidence.
The fifth and highest category concerns self-actualization needs: the desire to
develop as a person, to (3) ................... one’s potential, and to (4) ...................
the goals one has (5) ................... for oneself. According to Maslow, employees will
only be motivated if they are able to realize their goals (concerning creativity,
responsibility or whatever) through their work.
30 Pusiness Studies


As a need is satisfied, it becomes less important. For example, the more money
one has, the less motivating it is to (6) ................... more - although of course
this doesn’t stop people wanting it! In fact, pay becomes a social or psychological
matter rather than an economic one. When needs are satisfied, their capacity to (7)
tiivvieiiee....... and to act as an incentive diminishes. In Work and the Nature of Man
(1966), Frederick Herzberg argued that things like good salaries and fringe benefits, job
security, status, good company administration and labor relations, cannot motivate
workers. They are merely “satisfiers” or, more importantly, “dissatisfiers” where they
donot (8) ................... “Motivators”, on the contrary, include things such as having
a challenging or interesting job, recognition, responsibility, promotion, and so on.
actualization
needs
(self-development)
(respect, status)
(belonging, love)
(safety, protection)
(food, water, air, sleep)
Clearly, not everybody in manufacturing industry or routine service industry jobs
can (9) ................... challenging and interesting work or promotion to the highest
positions of responsibility. For this reason, many people have disputed Maslow’s
theory. For example, self-realization and self-actualizing needs are probably far more
prominent among university graduates and at higher levels of a company than at lower
levels, where social and security needs, and even a desire to (10) ...................
responsibility, might be dominant. Not everybody can (11) ................... himself or
herself at work. Yet even workers who cannot be, or do not want to be, involved in
planning, decision-making, controlling and organizing, can be given a variety of tasks,
rather than be expected to (12) ................... the same boring, repetitive, mechanical
task eight hours a day or more.
Pusiness Studies 31!


According to the text, are the following statements TRUE or FALSE?
1. The possibility of losing their job generally motivates people to work harder.
2. Workers need to be accepted and respected by their colleagues and superiors.
3. After a certain point, people are no longer motivated by money.
4. According to Maslow, a good working environment will motivate and fulfil
employees.
5. According to Herzberg, providing good working * conditions is unnecessary.
6. Educated people are more likely to want to achieve things in their jobs.
7. Managers have to ensure that everybody has an interesting job.
8. Switching among several boring, repetitive tasks is better than doing only one.
EXERCISE 2. Read the text then answer the questions below.
The work of Maslow and Herzberg has been developed info the theory of ‘job
enrichment’. This theory states that there are five characteristics affecting an individual's
motivation and performance:
Skill variety. The extent to which a job demands different skills.
Task identity. The degree to which a job has a visible outcome.
Task significance. The degree to which a job has an impact on the work of others.
Autonomy. The degree of freedom and choice that people have in scheduling work
and determining procedures.
Feedback. The amount of direct and dear information that is received about
performance.
The first three factors above contribute to the meaningfulness of the job. The fourth
gives a feeling of responsibility. The fifth contributes to a feeling of achievement and
recognition. Job enrichment fries to maximize the above five factors Within the constraints
of the organization. It also includes two specific strategies:
job enlargement -- combining a series of tasks info one challenging and interesting
assignment
job rotation - moving employees from one job to another.
32 Pusiness: Studies


Find a word in the text which means:
1. making something better and more enjoyable
2. result
3. power to make independent decisions
4. quality of being serious, useful and important
5. making something bigger
6. piece of work that you must do as part of your job or course of study
EXERCISE 3. Study the collocations related to decision making. Check any
unknown words in a dictionary.
achieve, define, establish, fail in, fall short of, fulfil, identify, meet, an objective
reach, set
address, cause, clear up, create, deal with, a problem
give rise to, handle, overcome, resolve, solve, tackle
accept, agree to / with, come up with, make, offer, put forward, reject, | a suggestion
rule out, take up, turn down
arrive at, come to, defer, make, overrule, overturn, postpone, put off, a decision
reach, reverse, take
collective, critical, crucial, difficult, hard, important, joint, key, major, | decision
tough, unanimous
anticipated, desirable, eventual, expected, favorable, outcome
final, likely, satisfactory, successful
Now divide the words in each box into three groups, based on their meaning.
achieve, meet, define, identify, fail in, fall short of | an objective
reach, fulfill establish, set
EN ER ER [TN
I EN EN FF
I ES ER FTN
I I CS
IE ES EO
Pusiness Studies 33


LISTENING
Listening 1: Listen to the following conversation and then decide whether the
statements below are true or false.
True or
False
1. Some employees at Trafalgar Products are absent from work more
often than they need to be
2. Kerry Webb suggests that all employees who are absent should be
interviewed by the Personnel Department
3. At Kerry Webb's previous firm, the employees made fun of those
people who took too much time off work.
4. In the American scheme described by Frank Collins, absenteeism
was reduced by giving cash bonuses to employees who had a 100%
attendance record.
5. None of the other executives at the meeting agreed with the scheme
which Frank Collins suggested.
Listening 2: Listen again and identify the phrases or expressions in the
conversation which mean the same as the following:
1. Actually, Sara, I think Frank's right about this.
2. Yes, I agree with you, Don.
3. They'd know we were watching them carefully.
4. (People) told you to improve your behaviour.
5. That's the first point to you, Sara! (as in sport).
6. And hardly anyone took time off work, unless they couldn't avoid.
34 Pusiness Studies


7. In any case, the unions would be strongly against it (the idea).
8. It (the idea) wouldn't be very popular here.
Listening 3: Helen Tucker is Human Resources Director at Procter and Gamble.
Each year, the company conducts a survey throughout their organisation to find out how
satisfied their staff are in their jobs. Listen to the first part of the interview, write down
at least 5 questions that you think will appear in the survey and compare with other
members of your group.
Listening 4: (Track 37, CD1, p40) Listen to the second part of
the interview and answer these questions.
= 1. What three ways have job priorities changed in recent years?
" 4 SEN 2. What examples does Helen Tucker give of flexible working
. ] “ programmes?
y 4 3. Apart from flexible working conditions, what other factors
might persuade people to join Procter and Gamble?
= 4. Why did Procter and Gamble introduce a car share scheme?
Helen Tucker
Listening 5: Listen to three MBA students at the Judge Business School talking
about motivation, and answer these questions.
car = 8 ; Hl | LAT
i [5 4)
Krishna Srinivasan Carlo de Stefanis Saktiandi Supaat
(from Malaysia) (from Italy) (from Singapore)
Pusiness Studies 35


1. According to Krishna, what is the disadvantage of working in auditing
compared to banking?
2. How did Krishna's company retain its staff?
3. According to Carlo, what is the main reason why people leave their jobs?
4. According to Carlo, does a company need a set of motivational incentives?
5. What does Carlo say a manager needs to do to engage his/her team?
6. According to Saktiandi, do the staff have to do what the organization wants, or
vice versa?
7. What does Saktiandi say about the importance of influencing and convincing
people?
UNIT REVIEW
1. What is a motivation?
2. What are the most common ways to increase a worker’s motivation? Give
examples of monetary and nonmonetary rewards.
3. What is job satisfaction?
4. How can companies raise job satisfaction of their workers?
5. Distinguish Theory X and Theory Y
6. What are hygiene factors?
7. Describe briefly Maslow’s Hierarchy of Needs.
36 Pusiness Studies


WRITING
Task 1: Write an essay of at least 250 words about the following topic.
Maslow's Hierarchy of Needs is a widely recognized theory of motivation that
suggests individuals are motivated by fulfilling a series of needs, from basic
physiological needs to self-actualization.
Discuss how Maslow’s Hierarchy of Needs can be applied in the workplace to
enhance employee motivation and satisfaction.
Your discussion should include examples of strategies that managers can use to
address different levels of needs, supported by insights from your Business Studies Course.
Pusiness Studies 37


Task 2: Write an essay of at least 250 words about the following topic.
Herzberg’s Two-Factor Theory distinguishes between satisfiers (hygiene
factors) and motivators, suggesting that addressing only hygiene factors may not be
enough to inspire employees to perform at their best.
Analyze how organizations can use satisfiers and motivators to enhance employee
motivation and job satisfaction.
Your analysis should include strategies for effectively implementing both types of
factors in the workplace, with examples from what you have learned in your Business
Studies Course.
38 Pusiness Studies


UNIT 3
COMPANY STRUCTURE
LEARNING OBJECTIVES ==
Boss)
After you have read and studied this unit, you Ea Re ==
should be able to | cw) 8 |S
i ga 7 Co
= discuss the different ways of organizing work. § 0 =
I S\N Bg
= discuss potential conflicts between different 2 BNE =a) {\
departments in a company. | jf Hh
H LF HA
= compare the differences between large and # i 8!
small companies I ——
“As you can see, I've simplified
the organizational chart.”
KEY TERMS
Organizational structure: The levels of management and division of responsibilities
within an organization.
Hierarchy: The levels of management in any organization, from the highest to the lowest.
A level of hierarchy refers to managers/ supervisors, other employees who are given a
similar level of responsibility in an organization.
Chain of Command: The structure in an organization which allows instructions to be I
passed down from senior management to lower levels of management.
Span of Control: The number of subordinates working directly under a manager.
Directors: Senior managers who lead a particular department or division of a business.
Line managers: People who have responsibility for people below them in the hierarchy
of an organization.
Supervisors: Junior managers who have direct control over the employees below them in
the organizational structure.
Staff managers: Specialists who provide support, information and assistance to line
managers.
Delegation: Giving a subordinate the authority to perform a particular task.
Pusiness Studies: 39


Decentralization: Taking decision away from the centre of an organization- way from
the Head Office.
LEAD- IN
= Which department - production, finance, accounting, marketing, sales, human
resources,... of an organization do you think is the most interesting to work in?
= What reasons can you think of for why departments get into conflict with each
other?
= [sit better to have one immediate boss or to work for more than one manager?
= Do you prefer to work alone or in a team?
= [s it more motivating to be responsible to someone for your work, or
responsible for people who report to you?
READING 1
Wikinomics and the future of companies
Experts are forecasting that in the future companies will use the Internet and the
‘wikinomics' principle (from wiki, the Hawaiian word for 'quick’, and economics). This
means collaborating with people outside the traditional corporate structure, letting
people around the world cooperate to improve an operation or solve a problem, and
paying them for their ideas. This is an extension of the trend of outsourcing: transferring
some of the company's internal functions or operations or jobs to outside suppliers,
rather than performing them 'in-house'. In other words, companies will no longer need
to get all their knowledge from their own full-time employees.
Here are two examples from Don Tapscott and Anthony D. Williams' book
Wikinomics: How Mass Collaboration Changes Everything:
Red Lake, a Canadian gold mine, wasn't finding enough gold and was in danger of
closing down. Then its chief executive heard a talk about Linus Torvalds, the inventor
of Linux, the open-source computer operating system. He decided to put the company's
secret geological data on the Internet, and offered prize money to experts outside the
company who could suggest where undiscovered gold might lie. People around the
world recommended 110 targets, and 80% of them turned out to contain gold. The
company's value has risen from $ 100 m to $9 bn.
40 Pusiness Studies


If Procter & Gamble is looking for a new molecule to clean red wine off a shirt, it can
use its own scientists. But there are 1.5 million other scientists around the world. The
company can offer a payment for a successful solution, and see if a scientist somewhere
comes up with one.
Read the text and answer the following questions.
= How is the world of organized work changing?
= In what ways could your organization, company or business school use the
wikinomics principle?
= What do you think are the disadvantages of the wikinomics principle?
Before reading about traditional company organization, check your
understanding of some basic terms by matching up the following words and
definitions.
autonomous to delegate function
hierarchy or chain of command line authority to report to
I. coeeveeeeeseeeee..... a system of authority with different levels, one above the
other e.g. a series of management positions whose holders can make decisions, or give
orders and instructions.
2. iiieeieieeeeenee.... a specific activity in a company, e.g. production, marketing
finance.
3. tieieeeeeieeeeenee.... independent, able to take decisions without consulting
someone at the same level or higher in the chain of command.
4. ............... the power to give instructions to people at the level below in the
chain of command
5. iiiiiieeeiieiiieeeneen.. to be responsible to someone and to take instructions from
them.
6. eeeeeeeeeeeeeeeennn.. to give someone else responsibility for doing something
instead of you.
Pusiness Studies 41


READING 2
The chain of command
Traditionally, organizations have had a hierarchical or pyramidal structure, with
one person or a group of people at the top, and an increasing number of people below
them at each successive level. This is sometimes called line structure. There is a clear
chain of command running down pyramid. All the people in the organization know what
decisions they are able to make, who their line manager (or boss) is (to whom they
report), and who their immediate subordinates are (over whom they have line authority
and can give instructions to).
—t— | es
= ty pee
Functional structure
Yet the activities of most organizations are too complicated to be organized in a
single hierarchy. Most large manufacturing companies, for example, have a functional
structure, including, among
among others, specialized production, finance, marketing, sales, and human
resources departments. This means, for instance, that the production and marketing
departments cannot take financial decisions without consulting the finance department.
Large organizations making a range of products are often further divided into separate
operating divisions.
A disadvantage of functional organization is that people are often more concerned
with the success of their own department than that of the company as a whole, so there
are conflicts between, say, finance and marketing or marketing and production over
what the objectives are.
42 Pusiness Studies


Functional Organization
President
R&D Finance Marketing Division Product
Manager Manager Manager z
Design Accounting sales Gi
Development] Purchasing Sustamel Bicebction
BW resino | Finance Distribution
Flattening hierarchies and delegating responsibility
A problem with very hierarchical organizations is that people at lower levels can't
take important decisions, but have to pass on responsibility to their boss. However, the
modern tendency is to reduce the chain of command, take out layers of management,
and make the organization much flatter. Advanced IT systems have reduced the need for
administrative staff and enabled companies to remove layers of workers from the
structure. Many companies have also been forced to cut back and eliminate jobs in
recessions.
Typically, the owners of small firms want to keep as much control over their
business as possible, whereas managers in larger businesses who want to motivate their
staff often delegate decision making and responsibilities to other people.
Matrix management
Another way to get round hierarchies is to use matrix management, in which
people report to more than one superior. For example, a product manager with an idea
could deal directly with the managers responsible for a certain market segment and for a
geographical region, as well as managers in the finance, sales and production
departments. Matrices involving several departments can become quite complex, so it is
sometimes necessary to give one department priority in decision making.
Pbusiness Studies 43


PRESIDENT
EE Re TR
MANAGER
MANAGER
PRODUCT Y
re |
PRODUCT Z
Teams
A further possibility is to have wholly autonomous, temporary groups or teams
that are responsible for an entire project, and are split up as soon as it is successfully
completed. But teams are not always very good at decision making, and usually require
a strong leader.
Comprehension
1. What is the main advantage of a chain of command?
2. Why is it not usually possible to organize a large organization in a single
hierarchy?
3. In what ways can dividing a business functionally cause problems?
4. What factors might lead companies to flatten their hierarchies?
5. According to the text, what kind of managers might not want to delegate
decision making?
6. What is the potential disadvantage of matrix management systems?
7. Under what circumstances might teams not be effective?
The text mentions the often incompatible goals of the finance, marketing and
production (or operations) departments. Classify the following strategies according to
which department would probably favor them.
1. a factory working at full capacity
2. a large advertising budget
3. a large sales force earning high commission
4. a standard product without optional features
5. a strong cash balance
44 Pusiness Studies


6. a strong market share for new products
7. generous credit facilities for customers
8. high profit margins
9. large inventories to make sure that products are available
10. low research and development spending
11. machines that give the possibility of making various different products
12. self-financing (using retained earnings rather than borrowing)
CASE STUDY 1
Yuan's business has grown rapidly in three years. Setting her flower business up as a sole
trader, Yuan had made all of the important decisions. Now she has three flower shops and
a home delivery service. She employs an accountant, managers for the shops, and a
transport manager. The current organizational structure is shown below:
Yuan
Shop A Shop
manager A manager B
1. What is the span of control of shop manager A?
2. How many levels of hierarchy are there in this business?
3. If shop A expands and four more staff are employed, the manager’s span of
control will increase.
a. Explain one advantage of this.
b. Explain one disadvantage of this.
Pusiness Studies 45


4. How do you think the organizational structure of Yuan’s business might change
if it continues to grow? Explain your answer.
CASE STUDY 2
Read the case study below and complete the follow-up tasks.
Mustafa was bored with his work. He was a telephone operator in a large telephone
banking firm. The business received calls from customers who wanted to use banking
services but did not have time to go fo a bank branch.
Mustafa worked in a team, called Team A, with other colleagues, Hammed and Asif. They
were supervised by Aziz, who was under the authority of Mohammed. There were two
other groups of telephone operators, Team B and Team C. These two teams were the same
size as Team A. They also had their own supervisors who reported to Mohammed.
All calls were recorded and supervisors could listen in to make sure that all workers were
polite and helpful to customers. Telephone operators were only allowed to do certain tasks
for customers. Other jobs, such as transfers of large sums of money, had to be referred to a
supervisor or manager. Telephone operators had to aim to answer 20 calls each hour. No
wonder Mustafa was bored with his work!
a. Draw the organisation chart for this telephone business.
b. What is the span of control of the supervisors?
¢. What would be the advantages and disadvantages of removing the supervisors
altogether? Your answer should include references to: chain of command, delegation,
span of control.
VOCABULARY
EXERCISE 1. Sentences 1 to 9 make up a short text about different ways in
which companies can be structured. Complete each sentence, by taking a middle part
from the second box and an end from the third box.
46 Pusiness Studies


1. Most organizations have a hierarchical or pyramidal structure,
2. A clear line or chain of command runs down the hierarchy,
3. Some people in an organization have an assistant who helps them;
4. Yet the activities of most large organizations are too elaborate
5. Large companies manufacturing a wide range of products, e.g. General Motors,
6. Businesses that cannot be divided into autonomous divisions with their own
markets
7. An inevitable problem with hierarchies is that people at lower levels
8. One solution to this problem is matrix management, in which people report to
more than one superior:
9. Another, more recent, idea is to have a network of flexible groups or teams.
a. are normally decentralized into separate operating divisions,
b. are unable to make important decisions, but are obliged to pass on responsibility
to their boss,
c. can simulate decentralization, setting up divisions that use
d. instead of the traditional departments, which are often at war with each other;
e. so that all employees know who their superior or boss is, to whom they report,
f. e.g. a brand manager with an idea can deal directly with
g. this is an example of a staff position: its holder has no line authority,
h. to be organized in a single hierarchy, and require functional organization,
i. with a single person or a group of people at the top,
j. and an increasing number of people below them at each successive level.
k. and is not integrated into the chain of command.
1. and who their immediate subordinates are, to whom they can give instructions
m. each with its own engineering, production and sales departments.
n. internally determined transfer prices when dealing with each other
o. the appropriate managers in the finance, manufacturing and sales departments.
p. they are formed to carry out a project, after which they are dissolved and their
members reassigned.
q. unless responsibilities have been explicitly delegated.
r. usually with production or operations, finance, marketing and personnel
departments.
Sentence 1: ............ Sentence 4: i. Sentence 7: a
Sentence 2: ............ Sentence 5: ............ Sentence 8: ..........
Sentence 3: ......... Sentence 6: ............ Sentence 9: Lo
Pusiness Studies 47


EXERCISE 2. Read the whole text and then complete the organization chart:
=k
I think we have a fairly typical organization for a manufacturing firm. We're
divided into Finance, Production, Marketing and Human Resources departments.
The Human Resources department is the simplest. It consists of two sections. One
is responsible for recruitment and personnel matters, the other is in charge of training.
The Marketing department is made up of three sections: Sales, Sales Promotion,
and Advertising, whose heads are all accountable to the marketing manager.
The Production department consists of five sections. The first of these is
Production Control, which is in charge of both Scheduling and Materials Control. Then
there’s Purchasing, Manufacturing, Quality Control, and Engineering Support.
Manufacturing contains three sections: Tooling, Assembly, and Fabrication.
Finance is composed of two sections: Financial Management, which is responsible
for capital requirements, fund control, and credit, and Accounting.
48 Pusiness Studies


EXERCISE 3. Complete each phrase 1-10 with an ending a) - j).
1. Operational planning translates a. adirection for the company.
general goals b. developed higher up the hierarchy.
2. Itis usual to divide an organization c. for assigning employees to specific
3. Some companies are organized jobs.
according d. in major strategy issues.
4. The Board gets involved e. into functional departments.
5. Senior-managers set f. into more concrete objectives.
6. Middle managers develop detailed gon the overall strategy.
D Es pe i h. to geographical regions.
7 UfisiRin managers implement plans i together staff from different of the
8. First-line managers are also company.
RAID . j. under the supervision of a first-line
9. A cross-functional team brings manager.
10. Subordinates work
LISTENING
Listening 1: Sam Shenton is a new intern at Warndar Techonologies, a software
engineering company in Texas. Listen to Bertram Newman, her supervisor, explaining
the company structure. Complete the organigram.
" Merilyn Warner
Shah x David Darren
ke # (Ol
Administration Marketing 6) ——— ®— IT & Technical
Monica Overstreet | Bertram Newman | Douglas Pearson Herb Monroe Support
@——= (1) NE R&D Manager Program Manager Roxane Pawle
Manager Development Manager 10) —
two one Art Director seven two software one
O— one (5) — (7) engineers (17) SEM
officer one © wo
two salesmen [12] S—
Pusiness Studies 49


EXERCISE 3. Complete each phrase 1-10 with an ending a) - j).
1. Operational planning translates a. adirection for the company.
general goals b. developed higher up the hierarchy.
2. Itis usual to divide an organization c. for assigning employees to specific
3. Some companies are organized jobs.
according d. in major strategy issues.
4. The Board gets involved e. into functional departments.
5. Senior-managers set f. into more concrete objectives.
6. Middle managers develop detailed gon the overall strategy.
D Es pe i h. to geographical regions.
7 UfisiRin managers implement plans i together staff from different of the
8. First-line managers are also company.
RAID . j. under the supervision of a first-line
9. A cross-functional team brings manager.
10. Subordinates work
LISTENING
Listening 1: Sam Shenton is a new intern at Warndar Techonologies, a software
engineering company in Texas. Listen to Bertram Newman, her supervisor, explaining
the company structure. Complete the organigram.
" Merilyn Warner
Shah x David Darren
ke # (Ol
Administration Marketing 6) ——— ®— IT & Technical
Monica Overstreet | Bertram Newman | Douglas Pearson Herb Monroe Support
@——= (1) NE R&D Manager Program Manager Roxane Pawle
Manager Development Manager 10) —
two one Art Director seven two software one
O— one (5) — (7) engineers (17) SEM
officer one © wo
two salesmen [12] S—
Pusiness Studies 49


Listening 2: Listen again and answer the questions.
1. Why is the organization simple now?
2. Why does Bertram say it's going to change?
3. What is the difference between the roles of the CEO and the COO at Warndar?
4. Who are Irysis and where are they based?
5. What happened about two years ago? 6 When did Roxane Pawle join Warndar?
‘What happened to her predecessor?
Listening 3: Tamar Kasriel, Head of Knowledge Venturing at the Henley Centre,
is talking about business opportunities in the future. Listen to the first part of the
interview and complete the chart below.
New business opportunities Expanding business sectors
1. A development in .........cc.cooovnne. 1. Areas where companies are
Adin ee VELY iuoiesssions snsssssrivasessy TOF €XAMpleE,
2. Targeting a particular ................... the growth of .....coccvveves orice. i
Of ..cvvivrrnenne, fOr example, older Europe and the United States.
people who are going to be an 2. Companies where they can
important ............... of the market.
ceeeveeeeeeee evvienneenn. and offer
something a bit special.
UNIT REVIEW
1. What is an organizational structure? Define a chain of command.
2. What is the main advantage of a chain of command?
3. Describe briefly a functional organizational structure.
4. Tn what ways can dividing a business functionally cause problems?
5. Describe briefly a matrix organization.
6. What is the potential disadvantage of matrix management systems?
7. What is centralization?
8. Why is it not usually possible to organize a large organization in a single
hierarchy?
9. What factors might lead companies to flatten their hierarchies?
10. Under what circumstances might teams not be effective?
50 Pusiness Studies


WRITING
Task 1: Write an essay of at least 250 words about the following topic.
The chain of command is a fundamental aspect of company structure, ensuring
clear lines of authority and communication. However, some argue that it can also
lead to inefficiencies and a lack of innovation.
Discuss the role of the chain of command in a company’s overall efficiency and
innovation.
Your discussion should include both the benefits and drawbacks of a well-defined
chain of command, supported by examples from what you have learned in your
Business Studies Course.
Pusiness Studies 51


Task 2: Write an essay of at least 250 words about the following topic.
A functional structure is a common organizational model where a company is
divided into departments based on specialized functions, such as marketing, finance,
and production. This structure has both advantages and disadvantages depending on
the organization’s needs and goals.
Examine the benefits and challenges of a functional organizational structure and
how it can influence communication, efficiency, and employee expertise within a
company.
Your examination should include examples of how the functional structure can be
effectively implemented or where it might present obstacles, supported by insights from
your Business Studies Course.
52 Pusiness Studies


UNIT 4
MANAGING ACROSS CULTURE
LEARNING OBJECTIVES
After you have read and studied this
unit, you should be able to FE
5, _ =T
f i 7 {= 2
= Explain the importance of cultural pp: [Ep LY. Th.
differences for people working A (E—
across cultures. 3 : 4
= Discuss the conflict between
T dont kno boi stated, iter ALT Ane is ht i's prt of our corporate cule
globalization and localization
® Explain the concepts of high-context culture, low-context culture, and power distance.
KEY TERMS
Glocalization is a combination of the words "globalization" and "localization." The
term is used to describe a product or service that is developed and distributed globally
but is also adjusted to accommodate the user or consumer in a local market.
Culture is defined as the complex system of values, traits, morals, and customs shared
by a society.
Context refers fo the stimuli, environment, or ambience surrounding an event.
The Lewis Model was developed by linguist and leading cross-cultural specialist
Richard D. Lewis. The model divides humans into 3 clear categories, based not on
nationality or religion but on BEHAVIOUR, namely, Linear-active, Multi-acfive and Reactive.
High-context culture is a culture by which the rules of communication are primarily
and dominantly transmitted through the use of contextual elements. These include specific
forms of body language, the social or familial status of an individual, and the tone of
voice employed during speech. High-context cultures usually do not have rules that are
explicitly written or stated.
Low-context culture refers fo a culture whereby most communications take place
through verbal language and rules are directly written out or stated for all to view.
Pusiness Shudies 53)


Power distance is the distribution of power among individuals within a culture and
how well unequal levels of power are accepted by those with less power.
LEAD- IN
1. What is culture? Choose the four factors that you think are the most important
in creating a culture. Give your reasons.
climate historical events language
architecture behaviour and attitudes institutions
religion social customs and traditions cuisine
geography ceremonies and festivals arts
2. Why is cultural awareness important for businesspeople? Give examples.
3. To what extent is the culture of your country similar enough to those of
neighboring countries? Do they have very different attitudes to work, hierarchy,
organization? If so, what are these differences?
READING 1
Managing across cultures
Richard Lewis is well known in the field of cross-cultural communication and the
author of When Cultures Collide: Managing Successfully Across Cultures and The
Cultural Imperative: Global Trends in the 21st Century. Read about his model of three
types of cultures, and answer the questions.
Managing a global multinational company would obviously be much simpler if it
required only one set of corporate objectives, goals, policies, practices, products and
services. But local differences - cultural habits, beliefs and principles specific to each
country or market - often make this impossible. The conflict between globalization and
localization has led to the invention of the word “glocalization”. Companies that want to
be successful in foreign markets have to be aware of the local cultural characteristics
that affect the way business is done.
Richard Lewis has classified different cultures according to three “poles”
representing different types of behavior. Businesspeople in 'linear-active' cultures such
as Britain, the USA and Germany are generally organized and rational, try to act
logically rather than emotionally, plan in advance, and like to do one thing at a time.
54 Pusiness Studies


They believe in respecting rules, regulations and contracts, and so are what the Dutch
theorist Fons Trompenaars calls 'universalists' - they think rules apply to everybody.
They are not afraid of confrontation but will compromise when necessary to achieve a
deal. They are essentially individualist.
'Multi-active cultures’ in Southern Europe, Latin America and Africa attach more
importance to feelings, emotions and intuition, and relationships and connections.
People like to do many things at the same time; they are flexible, good at changing
plans and happy to improvise. They believe in social or company hierarchy, and respect
status. They are essentially collectivist, and also what Trompenaars calls “particularist”
- they believe that personal relationships and friendships should take precedence over
rules and regulations.
People in "reactive
: : vispanicAmerics, (API raz Chie
cultures' in Asia prefer Avpentna Mexico. ely
to listen to and establish to Ponce, en
the other's position, and ‘SaudiArabia,
5 Russi, ah Couns
then react to it. They try Sots
gi : -
to avoid confrontation, Fisher BY & we
and don't want to 'lose a R— ledeonia Malaysia.
face' or cause someone The Lewis oo
else to. They rarely nemmienowes Model 2) 5
interrupt speakers and yueasies & Lo
often avoid eye contact. 2
They try to formulate Active ) ) 5) © @& - ir
approaches which suit Cmd, LE Lo Ce)
both parties.
Other countries have cultures which show combined characteristics of two of
these poles, and can be represented along the sides of a triangle.
Comprehension
1. Why is it important for companies to be aware of local cultures?
2. What are the differences between individualists and collectivists?
3. Who is more likely to think: “I'll let them speak first.”
4. Who is more likely to say, about other people: “They can’t be trusted because
they will always help their friends or family” - universalists or particularists?
Pusiness Studies £5


5. Who is more likely to say: “Oh, you can't trust them; they wouldn't even help a
friend”?
READING 2
Understanding Culture and Communication
Even when communicators share the same culture, comprehending the verbal and
nonverbal meanings of a message can be difficult. When different cultures come
together, special sensitivity and skills are necessary. Global business, communication
technologies, and social media span the world, reducing distances.
Culture may be defined as the complex system of values, traits, morals, and
customs shared by a society. Culture is a powerful operating force that molds the way
we think, behave, and communicate.
High and Low Context
Context is probably the most important cultural dimension and also the most
difficult to define. In a model developed by cultural anthropologist Edward T. Hall,
context refers to the stimuli, environment, or ambience surrounding an event. Hall
arranged cultures on a continuum, from low to high in relation to context.
Communicators in low-context cultures (such as those in North America,
Scandinavia, and Germany) depend little on the context of a situation and shared experience
to convey their meaning. They assume that messages must be explicit, and listeners rely
exclusively on the written or spoken word. Low-context cultures tend to be linear,
analytical, and action oriented. Business communicators stress clearly articulated messages
that they consider to be objective, professional, and efficient. Words are taken literally.
Communicators in high-context cultures (such as those in China, Japan, and
Middle Eastern countries) assume that the listener does not need much background
information. High-context cultures are more likely to be intuitive and contemplative.
Communicators in these cultures pay attention to more than the spoken or written word.
They emphasize interpersonal relationships, nonverbal expression, physical settings,
and social context. For example, Japanese communicators might say yes when they
really mean no. From the context of the situation, the Japanese speaker would indicate
whether yes really meant yes or whether it meant no. The context, tone, time taken to
answer, facial expression, and body cues would convey the meaning of yes. Thus, in
high- context cultures, communication cues tend to be transmitted by posture, voice
inflection, gestures, and facial expression.
56 Pusiness Studies


Higher Context
Br
prea
ry
Lower HE
Context =F fi
el i.
a
ae
Explicit messages Implied messages
Power Distance
One important element of culture is power distance, which was first introduced by
influential social psychologist Geert Hofstede. The Power Distance Index measures how
people in different societies cope with inequality- in other words, how they relate to
more powerful individuals. In high-power- distance countries, subordinates expect
formal hierarchies and embrace relatively authoritarian, paternalistic power
relationships. In low- power-distance cultures, however, subordinates consider
themselves as equals of their supervisors. They confidently voice opinions and
participate in decision making. Relationships between high-powered individuals and
people with little power tend to be more democratic, egalitarian, and informal. As you
have probably guessed, in most Western cultures, people are more relaxed about social
status and the appearance of power. Deference is not generally paid to individuals
merely because of their wealth, position, seniority, or age. In many Asian cultures,
however, these characteristics are important. A strict top-down management structure
allows for faster decision making, but it also prevents subordinates from speaking up
due to fear or resignation, researchers say. Employee silence can be costly. For
example, it has been blamed for such disasters as the Sanlu milk powder scandal in
China and the Fukushima nuclear power plant explosion in Japan.
Comprehension
1. What is culture? What factors are likely to be governed by cultures?
2. What is context?
3. What are some of the most striking features of communication in low-context
cultures?
Pusiness Studies: 57


4. What factors are more important than linguistic inputs in high-context culture
when it comes to communication?
5. How are communication cues conveyed in high-context cultures?
6. What does Power Distance Index measure?
7. How do subordinates in low-context cultures and high-context cultures treat
their supervisors?
8. What are the disadvantage and advantage of top-down management structure?
Decide if the following statements are TRUE or FALSE?
1. The Power Distance Index measures the gap between people in high- powered
positions and their subordinates.
2. In high-power- distance cultures, the low-ranking people tend to pay more
respect and show obedience to their supervisors.
3. In low-power- distance countries, it is inappropriate for the subordinates to
voice their objection to their managers.
4. Workers in high-power- distance cultures are more empowered than their
counterparts in the low- power- distance cultures.
5. Decisions can be made faster when the subordinates are involved in the
decision-making process.
6. Worker silence is considered a good sign since fewer conflicts occur in
workplace.
CASE STUDY 1
You work in a multinational organization. You have been given the responsibility
of mentoring two American colleagues who are coming to work in your office. You
have been asked to help them settle in to their new workplace by preparing a short
document outlining the general practices they can expect to find when they are living
and working in your country.
The document could include information about working practices in your office,
as well as practical information about your city or country, including advice about
transport, and conventions such as tipping in taxis and restaurants.
In groups discuss what should go in this document and then present these ideas to
the rest of the class.
58 Pusiness Studies


CASE STUDY 2
A group of managers is attending an informal briefing about the business
culture of your country.
Background
You work for Better Business Communications, a company which prepares
business people who are visiting your country for the first time. A group of top
managers will shortly be visiting your country in order to decide on the location of an
overseas subsidiary. During their visit, the managers will attend meetings with a number
of business people, and be entertained at their homes or in restaurants. They also plan to
do some social visits and excursions. You will run an informal business culture briefing
for the management group, informing them about aspects of business culture in your
country and answering their questions.
Discuss what kind of topics you could include in your briefing about the business
culture of your country.
VOCABULARY
Exercise 1. Read the following text and fill in the blank with a suitable word or
phrase.
dimensions distant low-power distance accessible
hierarchical high-power distance forms of address remote
A company’s culture depends to a large extent on the country it is based in. Geert
Hofstede is a world-famous expert on cultural differences. Power-distance is one of the
important cultural (1) that he identified.
Sweden is a(2) culture. Managers are (3) and
approachable and there is a tradition of employees being involved in decision-making as
part of a team of equals - everyone’s opinion is treated equally.
France is a (4) culture. Managers are usually more distant and
remote.
Employees may feel quite (5) from their managers and show a
lot of deference - respect - to them, following decisions but not participating in them.
Now have a look at these organigrams:
Pusiness Studies 59


This Swedish company is not very (6) , with only three
management layers - different levels
French companies are on the whole far more hierarchical than Swedish ones, with
more management layers.
Deference and distance may be shown in language. Some languages have many
) that you use to indicate how familiar you are with someone. In
English, whether first names or surnames are used can show distance.
Exercise 2. Which word combination with “CULTURE” relates to each of the
following?
g the way that companies in general behave, the way business is done, etc.
business : :
in a particular place
company or the way a particular company works and the things that its employees
corporate believe are important
long-hours | culture where people are expected to work a long time each day
macho the values typically associated with men - strength, etc.
when selling is seen as the most important thing in an organization, rather
sales ai
than other activities
learning when learning and innovation are seen as important
60 Pusiness Studies


1 The men really dominate in this company - they don’t make life easy for women at all. All
they talk about is football.
2 They say that if you go home at 5.30, you can’t be doing your job properly. But I'm going
anyway.
3 We're all encouraged to go on courses and to keep up our specialist knowledge.
4 There was a time when managers could only wear white shirts in this particular company -
things are a bit less formal now. (2 expressions)
5 In this country, it’s easy to do business and there’s very little bureaucracy.
6 All the chief executives in the company’s history have had a background in selling.
Exercise 3. Match the words in the box with the definitions below.
collectivist compromise confrontation connections eye contact glocalization
improvise interrupt intuition logic lose face status
1. an invented word combining worldwide and regional concerns
2. thought based on reason and judgement rather than feelings and emotions
3. a face-to-face disagreement or argument
4. reducing demands or changing opinions in order to agree
5. understanding or knowing without consciously using reason
6. people of influence or importance with whom you are associated
7. to do something when necessary without having already planned it
8. respect, prestige or importance given to someone
9. believing that the group is more important than the individual
10. to be humiliated or disrespected in public
11. to cut into someone else’s turn to speak
12. looking directly at the people you are talking or listening to
Pusiness Studies: 61


LISTENING
Listening 1: Listen to two versions of a conversation between Tiffany, an intern,
and Simon, her supervisor. Underline the words that describe Simon's behaviour. Then
compare your answers with a partner.
objective impatient a good listener | objective impatient a good listener
dogmatic ~~ diplomatic friendly firm | dogmatic ~ diplomatic friendly firm
understanding insincere authoritarian | understanding insincere authoritarian
threatening weak frank threatening weak frank
Listening 2: Listen to Sandra, an American business student, and David, a British
civil service manager, talking about problems they experienced with work placements.
Answer the questions.
1. What problems did Sandra and David have?
2. What were the misunderstanding that caused these problems?
Listening 3: (MKL, p55, CD1 50:52-53:15) Listen to the first part of an interview
with Jeff Toms, Marketing Director at the International Briefing Centre at Farnham
Castle, Surrey. He talks about training courses which prepare people for doing business
internationally. Complete the list of issues that he mentions.
Issues covered by the training course
Beinn, WATENESS
= Practical issues of 2. ................. and 3. ............. overseas
= Dealing With 4. .....ccooovviiiis coin
= Schooling; 5. .........coee........ Care; international security
= How to negotiate 6. ...................
= Communication
- telephone - e-mail - the 7. .....cooovvvves rvs
= Presentation skills
- the words you use
- the 8. ................. you use
- how to deal with 9. ............ and answers
- managing your 10. .........c.ccc....
62 Pusiness Studies


Listening 4: Listen to the second part of the interview. Jeff talks about the
personality traits that help in doing business internationally. Which three personality
traits does he consider to be important?
Listening 5: Listen to the third part of the interview. Which two cultural aspects
does Jeff mention and what does he say about them?
= Entertaining = Gift-giving = Hierarchy
= Time = Greetings = Dress
UNIT REVIEW
1. Why is it important for companies to be aware of local cultures?
2. Describe the characteristics of businesspeople from Multi-Active, Reactive,
and, Linear- Active cultures.
3. What is culture? What factors are likely to be governed by cultures?
4. What is context?
5. Describe the major features of low- context and high-context cultures and give
example of countries adopting low-context and high-context cultures.
6. What does Power Distance Index measure?
7. Indicate the differences in the relationship between subordinates and their
supervisors in low-context cultures and high-context cultures.
Pusiness Studies 63


WRITING
Task 1: Write an essay of at least 250 words about the following topic.
Glocalization is the practice of conducting business according to both local and
global considerations. While this strategy allows companies to tailor their products
and services to local markets, it can also create challenges in maintaining a
consistent global brand image.
Discuss the benefits and challenges of glocalization in international business.
Your discussion should include examples of how companies have successfully or
unsuccessfully implemented glocalization strategies, supported by what you have
learned in your Business Studies Course.
64 Pusiness Studies


Task 2: Write an essay of at least 250 words about the following topic.
Understanding power distance is essential when managing teams in different
cultural contexts. While high power distance cultures may emphasize respect for
authority, low power distance cultures often promote more egalitarian interactions.
Analyze the challenges and opportunities that arise when managing teams
with different power distance orientations.
Your analysis should consider how these cultural differences affect team
dynamics, decision-making, and conflict resolution, using examples from real-world
companies or case studies discussed in your Business Studies Course.
Pusiness Studies 65


UNIT 5
RECRUITMENT
LEARNING OBJECTIVES ;
After you have read and studied this unit, you he [ON (93
should be able to 2 : 9 v 6 q =
= Consider the main stages in recruitment I 7” {4
and selection of employees dl 4
= Compare between internal recruitment
and external recruitment \
= Explain the importance of training to
business and employees
Discuss the benefits and limitations of induction training, on-the-job training and off-
the-job training
KEY TERMS
Recruitment - the process from identifying that the business needs to employ someone
up to the point at which applications have arrived at the business.
Employee selection - the process of evaluating candidates for a specific job and
selecting an individual for employment based on the needs of the organisation.
Ajob analysis - identifies and records the responsibilities and tasks relating to a job.
ll
A job description - oullines the responsibilities and duties to be carried out by
I
someone employed to do a specific job.
A job specification - a document which outlines the requirements, qualifications,
expertise, physical characteristics, etc., for a specified job.
Internal recruitment - when a vacancy is filled by someone who is an existing
employee of the business.
External recruitment - when a vacancy is filled by someone who is not an existing
employee and will be new to the business.
I
66 Pusiness: Studies


Induction training - an introduction given fo anew employee, explaining the business's
activities, customs and procedures and infroducing them to their fellow workers.
On-the-job training - occurs by watching a more experienced worker doing the job.
Off-the-job training - involves being trained away from the workplace, usually by
specialist frainers.
LEAD - IN
= How long do you think recruiters in a Human Resources department spend
looking at the average CV or resume for a junior position?
= If 100 young people with very similar experience and qualifications apply for
a job, which elements in a CV or resume make a difference, and might lead to
a job interview?
= How many times do you expect to apply for a new position during your
career? How many times do you expect to change jobs?
READING 1
Recruiting and selecting employees
Businesses need to start the process of recruitment and selection when:
= an employee leaves their job and they need to be replaced
= itis a new business starting up and needs employees
= it is a successful business and wants to expand by employing more people.
The recruitment process gives the business an opportunity to assess the role of
employees, the nature of their jobs and future workforce requirements.
In a large business this process of recruiting and selecting staff is usually
undertaken by the Human Resources department. Small businesses do not recruit
enough people to make it worthwhile having a separate Human Resources department —
often the managers who will be supervising the employee will deal with recruitment for
their department. For example, in a hotel a restaurant manager might recruit the
employees who serve customers in the restaurant.
The more important the job is to the business - the more technical and senior the
position - the more careful and time-consuming the recruitment and selection process
will be.
Pusiness: Studies 67


The recruitment process is summarised in the diagram below.
4 MEE ARE # ey az? i El i a
: He 5. Job ol in
er amen
shortlisting media
Comprehension
When employees 'give notice', i.e. inform their employer that they will be leaving
the company as soon as their contract allows, in what order should the company carry
out the steps listed below? Complete the chart opposite with the Letter A-1.
A. Either hire an employment agency
or for a senior post, a firm of 5
SER or advertise the vacancy > jin
B. Establish whether there is an internal midi
candidate who could be promoted (or I'S
moved sideways) to the job
C. Examine the job description for the a. pis
post, to see whether it needs to be Ri
changed (or indeed, whether the post y
needs to be filled) olbepbiate
D. Follow up the references of candidates feral andidateand Yes hl
or applicants who seem interesting baie am »
E. Invite the shortlisted candidates for
an interview ~~
F. Make a final selection ,
G. Receive applications, curricula vitae / 4 AY
resumes and covering letters, and - wy
make a preliminary selection (a
shortlist)
H. Try to discover why the person has Mi +
resigned [
I. Write to all the other candidates to
inform them that they have been
unsuccessful
68 Pusiness Studies


The first stage of the recruitment process is to carry out a job analysis to studythe
tasks and activities to be carried out by the new employee. If the business is recruiting
an employee to fill an existing position, an outline of the duties for the new employee
will be easy to draw up, and may already exist. If the newemployee is needed due to the
business expanding or because the business has identified skills no one in the business
has, more thought will have to go into the analysis of the job.
Job analysis and description
Once the job has been analysed, a job flea toi eainpy my i.
description will be produced. A job [Ls Harri ;
description has several functions: | Ei {story ;
Responsible to: Hotel Manager
= It is given to the applicants for the | Respnsiiefor Cleaners, mom atendants
job so they know exactly what the | Mainpurpeseolthejor:
- + * Responsible for domestic services in the hotel, with an aim to keeping accommodation
job entails. | clean and mavained fo the hotel ues.
» Tt will all fob specificati t B * Responsible for the cleaners and room attendants. To take a supervisory role.
ow a j ication tobe | LL
drawn up, to see if the applicants |* yori of due, sch as ceaing
. * Advisi ff wher hy
‘match up to the job’, so that people es
: : : + Organising repairs and replacement of worn tems from
with the right skills will be po er
employed. | + Checking thatthe roams are ready o receive guests,
Iki reception when oms re reso acpancy.
®* Once someone has been employed, it | sgn:
i | + Appointment of new staf,
can show whether they are carying | imemdit
out the job effectively. If a dispute | + Trsnngrensiitouse he equipment
occurs about the employee's tasks, | a
the job specification can be referred ——m—————————————]
to in order to settle these questions.
The exact structure and content of a job
description varies from business to
business.
= Job descriptions often also contain
information about:
= the conditions of employment -
salary, hours of work, pension
scheme and staff welfare
= training that will be offered
= opportunities for promotion.
Pusiness Studies 69


Activity 1: Write the “key duties” section for the job description for the job:
“Sales and Marketing Executive”
Job specification
Once a job description has been drawn up, the qualifications and qualities
necessary to undertake the job can be specified. This list of desirable and essential
requirements for the job is called a job, or person, specification. The requirements will
usually include:
= the level of educational qualifications
= the amount of experience and type of experience
= special skills, knowledge or particular aptitude
= personal characteristics, such as type of personality.
Here is a job specification for a housekeeper in a hotel.
Jobitite: : Housekeeper Experience:
FEEL Ee a "Desirable: Minimum 1 year's esprience of working in hotels.
pris of job: . " a + Communicates effectively with people.
+ Responsible for domestic services in the hotel, with an + Ability to manage people
i aim to keeping accommodation clean and maintained for 9¢ people. H
i the hotel guests. Physical fitness: H
i + Responsible for cleaners and room attendants. Totakea ~~ * Fit, needs to be on feet all day.
supervisory role. Personal characteristics:
Qualifications: * Honest and responsible.
: Essential: 4 I6CSES (A-C) including Maths and English. + Friendly, helpful, organised.
Activity 2: Write for a job specification for the job: “Sales and Marketing
Executive”
Internal Recruitment
The post could be filled from inside the organisation — internal recruitment. The
vacancy may be advertised on a company noticeboard or, if the business is large, in a
company newspaper which may be electronically available to all employees. This method
of recruitment would be suitable for an employee who seeks promotion within the
business and when a business is happy to recruit someone from its existing workforce.
External Recruitment
If a business decides that none of its current employees has the necessary skills or
expertise to fill a vacancy, or they want to increase the choice of candidates for a job,
70 Pusiness Studies


then they will use external recruitment. This does not mean that current employees
cannot apply for the job and might even be successful in getting the job. Businesses that
are growing rapidly, or who have a high labour turnover will frequently use external
recruitment to fill job vacancies.
Discussion:
1. What are the advantages and disadvantages of internal recruitment?
2. What are the advantages and limitations of external recruitment?
Advertising a job
Once the job description and person specification have been produced the
business needs to advertise the vacancy.
If the job is to be filled using internal recruitment, then the advertisement could be
placed on the staff notice board, emailed to all staff, or included in a workplace
newsletter.
If external recruitment is being used, then the advertisement could be placed in
local or national newspapers and specialist magazines. The choice of whether to use
local or national newspapers to advertise job vacancies will often depend on the nature
of the job. If it is for middle and senior management jobs, or jobs requiring a specialist
skill, then advertising nationally will probably attract more, better quality, applicants
than local advertising. Unskilled or semi-skilled job vacancies will probably be filled
from the local population, so there is no need to advertise nationally. This is an
important decision to make because advertising in national newspapers is always much
more expensive and would be a waste of money if the job is likely to be filled by a local
applicant.
Many businesses now include details of any job vacancies on their website.
In some countries there are government-run job centres where vacancies can be
advertised, usually for free. There are also a number of job websites such as Seek in
New Zealand and JobsDB in Malaysia.
Some businesses might also use specialist recruitment agencies such as Candor
Group (pvt) Ltd in Pakistan. These agencies often provide a complete recruitment
service, which saves the time of managers in the business with the vacancy. However,
they can be expensive to use.
The advert must be designed so that it attracts the right applicants and provides all
the information they need about how to apply for the post.
Pusiness Studies 71


Sending out application forms and job details
Once the job has been advertised then the business will need to send out further
details and application forms to people who have shown an interest in applying.
Those who decide to apply will complete and return an application form or send a
curriculum vitae - known as a CV - whichever the employer requests.
A CV contains the person's name, address and other contact details; the education
and qualifications obtained; history of their employment; other skills and experiences
they have that might be relevant to the job; hobbies and interests; and the name and
contact details of people who will provide references.
Receiving applications and shortlisting applicants
The Human Resource Department and manager of the department where the
vacancy exists will look through all the applications. They will compare the information
on the application forms or CV with the job description and person specification to
produce a shortlist of applicants for interview.
Interviewing shortlisted candidates
Shortlisted candidates will be invited to attend for interview. The interview may
just be a question and answer session with one or two people interviewing each
candidate, or there may be a panel of interviewers. Usually the more senior the position,
the more people are likely to be involved in the interview process.
Candidates may be asked to complete tests. These may include aptitude tests; for
example someone applying for a car mechanics job may be asked to fix a problem on a
car, watched by the interviewer. Other tests may involve team activities or in- tray
exercises, such as reading typical letters that the business receives and deciding on the
best course of action to take in response.
Selecting the right candidate
Following the interviews and results of any test, the interview panel will select
who they think is the best applicant for the job.
The applicant will receive a formal job offer in writing, although they might first
receive a phone call offering them the job. Once they start work, they will be given a
contract of employment and induction training.
72 Pusiness Studies


Activity 3: Complete this job advertisement with appropriate words from the box.
The first one has been done for you.
iy Jem www
(1) Leading manufacturing company APB has a (2) for the
@B)__ of
Sales manager
to begin work in our busy Manchester office from this September.
The successful (4) will be suitably (5) and should have
had extensive (6), in sales management. They will be able to work as
part of a (7) , and should have (8) and the ability to
©), and inspire their (10) 5
In return, we can offer an (11), (12) (13) >
which includes a (14) (15). of £20K per (16) 5
10% (17), on all sales, a guaranteed annual (18) of £1K,
and other (19), such as a company car and free meals.
If you are interested in working for this us, send your (20), with a
(21) letter to: APB Ltd, Norton Towers, Blackberry Way, Whittersley,
‘WHS 4RT APB is an equal opportunities employer
Activity 4: Complete the following table with relevant information.
AR FR ea CR iia
"Internal: Noticeboard at the company ~~ Birr :
National newspapers : H
Specialist magazines ; :
{ Online recruitment sites 1 ol ;
Recruitment agencies : os i
Government-run Job Centres H E
Pusiness Studies 73


READING 2
TRAINING
There should be clear objectives for training employees. Training is important to a
business as it may be used to:
= introduce a new process or new equipment
= improve the efficiency of the workforce
= provide training for unskilled workers to make them more valuable to the
company
= Decrease the supervision needed
= Improve the opportunity for internal promotion
= decrease the chances of accidents.
Employees should be clear about the benefits of the training or they will not work
hard or take the training seriously.
Training is usually trying to achieve one or more of the following:
= To increase skills.
= To increase knowledge.
= To improve employees’ attitudes to encourage them to accept change and raise
awareness, for example, a need to improve customer service.
There are three main types of training:
= induction training
= on-the-job training
= off-the-job training.
Induction training
This is carried out when an employee is new to the job. When a new employee
starts at a company, they will not know where anything is or who people are or what is
expected of them. The induction programme will last sometimes for a day, sometimes
for several days — it depends on the company and the particular job.
‘When a person starts a new school, they are shown round, introduced to teachers
and told about their lessons — this is the same type of information you would need to
know if you had just joined a new company.
74 Pusiness Studies


On-the-job training ‘o Sl .e:
CL ow JRE 1] Ee a
This is where a person is trained by | FisslN § hd ie ws
hi : 5 F a & of
watching a more experienced worker doing the i v As
job. They are shown what to do. This method of ra >
training is only suitable for unskilled and semi- 1 QP
skilled jobs. es
Off-the-job training
This is where the worker goes away
N - 2 | from the place where they work. This
pre Ly dan I may be to a different part of the
b\
# A, building or it may be at a different place
3 A
a) WS altogether, such as a college or
: mir FN qe fo
Ta specialist training centre.
we rs Om ; z
By So = > =~ The techniques used to train workers
a = are more varied and can involve more
complex tasks. Off-the-job trainingoften involves classroom learning, using lecture, role
play, case studies or computer simulations.
Activity 1: Complete the following table with relevant information
‘Method of training © Advantages Disadvantages
Induction training | : ]
{ On-the-job training a i
Off-the-job training ~~: : H
CASE STUDY 1
Night Cashier for busy petrol station, 38 hours per week, {You will be a graduate of calibre, numerate and ~]
Wed to Sat, 22:00-07:30, $10.50 per hour. Start immediately. PC literate, with at least three years’ experience in
Tel.1122 44551 manufacturing.
¥ Industrial Engineering Professional Please write with full CV to: Mr M. Ahmed, MD, Qualityfoam ©
Multi-site role throughout the country: based in New City. Ltd, New Road, New City, 3412 8769.
Compatiteats ofa) with fengs beefs Administration Assistant required, $16.00 per hour
Ouslivioam LHD a leading manufacturer of polyurethane Good all-round administration skills needed to undertake
0am operating in 16 countries and a major supplier to the aa dhol ar Ih
ee titre nary a variety of duties within the organisation. Knowledge of
& Word or similar package essential. Immediate start.
Appealing to a results-orientated professional, . —
responsibilities will include performance improvement, lease write or telephone for an application form from: 1
business analysis, project management and capital Mr S. Singh, ZYT Ltd, 2341 Old Road, New City, 456723
expenditure appraisal. Tel. 0892 557739
i ———— - =—
Pusiness Studies 75


1. Which advert would have appeared in a national newspaper and which would
have been in a local newspaper? Explain your choice.
2. Design your own advertisement for the job for which you drew up a job
description and job specification. Where would you place this advertisement,and why?
3. Compare your advert with that of the other students inyour group. Which would
be most likely to attract the best people to apply for the job and why?
CASE STUDY 2
1. Suggest three reasons why employees might leave their job.
2.1f alot of employees left every year, why might this be a problem for the business?
3. Why do businesses carry out induction training?
4. The Royal Garden is a hotel in the centre of a city. It employs many workers in
the restaurant and the department which cleans and services rooms. Most of these
workers have few skills. In the restaurant there are also trained employees who work in
the kitchens preparing food.
i) The Royal Garden wants to increase the number of restaurants it has and
therefore needs to employ more staff to work in the kitchens. Discuss whether it should
use internal or external recruitment for the new chefs to work in the restaurants.
ii) The Royal Garden has recruited several waiters and waitresses to work in the
new restaurants. What type of training would you suggest the management use to train
them? Justify your choice.
VOCABULARY
EXERCISE 1. This text about the recruitment process below has been divided
into three parts. Complete each part with the words and expressions in the boxes. The
first answer for each part has been done for you.
Part 1
affirmative applicants appointments benefits description disabilities
recruitment
discrimination equal experience externally institutional increments
opportunities agency
internally job centres journals leave personal private
qualities recruitment
agency
qualifications recruitment rewards situations vacaney
agency vacant
76 Pusiness Studies


‘When a company or organisation has a 1. vacancy for a new member of staff, it
usually advertises the post. It does this 2. (for example, in the company
magazine or on a company notice board) or 3. , either in the
4. or 5. section of a newspaper, in specialist trade
6. or through a 7. which helps people to find
employment. There are two main types of agency. The first of these is the
8. , usually found in a school or university.
These work closely with employers to let potential employees know about the
jobs that are on offer (also included in this category are 9. , which are
provided by the state, and which can be found in most main towns in Britain and other
countries). The second is the 10. , which are independent companies,
and employers have to pay these agencies for each employee they successfully provide.
A job advertisement has to give an accurate 11. of the job and
what it requires from the 12. (the people who are interested in the post).
These requirements might include 13. (academic, vocational and
professional), work 14. in similar lines of work, and certain
15: (for example, it might say that you need to be practical, professional
and have a sense of humour). The advertisement will also specify what
16. (basic salary, commission, regular 17. , etc) and
18. (paid 19. , free medical insurance, company car, etc)
the company can offer in return. The advertisement must be careful it does not break
employment laws concerning sex and racial 20. © some companies
emphasise in their job advertisements that they are 21. employers (or
22, employers in the USA), which means that they will employ people
regardless of their sex, skin colour, religion, 23. 5 ete
Part 2
application aptitude board candidates covering
CV group-situational in-basket introduction medical
one-to-one ~~ pre-selection psychometric short-list turn down
The job advertisement will usually ask people interested in the post to send their
1. CV with a 2. letter or a letter of 3. , or they will ask
people to write or call for an 4. form. The managers of the company
will look at these, and go through a 5. procedure, where they choose or
6. applicants. They then prepare a 7. of possible
Pusiness Studies 77


8. : these are the people who will then be invited for an interview.
Interviews usually take one of two forms. The first is the 9. interview,
with one applicant and one employer talking together. The second is the
10. interview, with one applicant being interviewed by several people at
once.
There may also be tests to see whether the applicant is suitable for the post. There
are several of these, including 11. tests (which look at psychological
traits of the applicant), 12. tests, which test the applicant's skills and
knowledge, and his / her potential for acquiring more skills and knowledge),
13; tests (where several applicants are put into an imaginary situation
and decide how to deal with it), and 14. tests (in which an applicant has
to deal with a number of imaginary tasks similar to those s/he would face in the job).
Applicants may also have to go for a 15. test to see whether they are
healthy enough for the work.
Part 3
programme
El Fl el
plan
Many employers use a 1. seven-point plan when they recruit for a new post. They
look at different aspects of the applicant to decide whether or not s/he has the correct
2: for the job. These include physical 3. (for example, is
the applicant smart and well-presented?), educational qualifications, general
4. , special 5. , hobbies and outside 6. 5
mental and emotional 7. and family 8. .
If a candidate gets through the above stages, s/he will be asked to provide
9. from people who know him / her, and if these are positive s/he is then
10. the post. Before s/he actually starts working, s/he may go through
an 11. to learn more about the company and the post. Sometimes, s/he
may be given a 12. contract and have to complete a
13; period, where the employers make sure that s/he is suitable for the
job before being offered an 14. or 15. contract. After
s/he has been with the company for a while, there might be a 16, session,
to assess how s/he is getting on in the post.
78 Pusiness Studies


EXERCISE 2. Choose the correct alternatives to complete the text below.
Employees who leave a company are not always replaced. Sometimes the
company examines the (1) for the post, and decides that it no longer
needs to be filled. On other occasions the company will replace the person who resigns
with an internal candidate who can be (2) (or moved sideways) to the
job. Or it will advertise the position in newspapers or trade journals, or engage an
employment (3) to do so. For junior management positions, employers
occasionally recruit by giving presentations and holding interviews in universities,
colleges and business schools or senior positions, companies sometimes use the services
of a firm of (4) who already have the details of promising managers.
People looking for work or wanting to change ther job generally read the (5)
advertised in newspapers. To reply to an advertisement is to (6)
for a job; you become an (7) or a candidate. You write
a/an (8) or fill in the company's application form, and send it, along
with your (9) (GB) or résumé (US). You are often asked to give the
names of two people who are prepared to write a (10) for you. If you
have the right qualifications and abilities, you might be (11) , ie.
selected to attend a/an (12) .
it is not uncommon for the (13) department or the managers
responsible for a particular post to spend eighty or more working hours on the
recruitment of a single member of staff. However, this time is well-spent if the company
appoints the right person for the job.
1. a. job description ~~ b. job satisfaction c. job security
2. a. advanced b. employed c. promoted
3. a. agency b. centre c. company
4. a. headhunters b. headquarters c. headshrinkers
5. a. openings b. opportunities c. vacancies
6. a. apply b. applicate c. candidate
7. a. appliance b. applicant c. application
8. a. appliance b. application c. demand
9. a. job history b. curriculum vitae (CV) c. life story
10. a. reference b. report c. testimony
Pusiness Studies 79


11. a. appointed b. employed c. short-listed
12. a. examination b. interview c. trial
13. a. personal b. personnel Cc. resources
LISTENING
Listening 1: Sophie is now talking to the marketing manager, Tim Brown, about
salary increases for his staff. Listen to their conversation. Then Look at Tim's notes
from the meeting and correct them where necessary.
has agreed 5%
1 The Board needs-toagree the 55% review, effective from
1 October.
2 I told Sophie that there ave at least six staff who should
get more than 5% (those wha relocated from Canada last
year).
3 Performance review and salary review will be separated
in future.
Tell staff
4 There won't be any redundancies this year.
5 Performance reviews will take place in the new year.
© Flexitime will be introduced next year.
7 No figure for next year’s bonuses yet.
Action,
§ Give Sophie my recommendations asap.
9 Keep reviews to the agreed level if possible.
Listening 2: Listen to a conversation between a 4
Klaus Bohn, the personnel manager of a global - ¥ i
company in Cologne, and Jason Hughes, the A
industrial relations manager of their plant in the U.K. ’
Which statements in each group below best | &
describes the situation they are discussing? f
80 Pusiness Studies:


1. a) A 3% increase has been turned down.
b) A 5% increase has been agreed.
c) A 5% review was given a year ago.
2. a) There may have to be some redundancies worldwide.
b) There may have to be some redundancies in the U.K.
¢) There may have to be some redundancies in Amsterdam.
3. a) White-collar staff have had salaries frozen for 5 years.
b) White-collar workers' salaries were last reviewed 2 years ago.
¢) White collar workers have no chance of a salary review.
4. a) Workers at the plant are on strike.
b) Workers at the plant are dissatisfied with the proposed wage increase.
c) Workers at the plant are concerned about safety issues.
5. a) Workers at the plant have heard rumours of closure.
b) Workers at the plant have heard rumours wages may be reduced.
¢) Workers at the plant have heard rumours that jobs may be transferred to
Poland.
Listening 3: Listen to the dialogue again and complete the questions with the
words in the box below. Then use the information in the dialogue to answer the
questions.
1. What's the union's rejection of the pay deal?
2. What exactly was Jason's argument?
3. Why did the union representatives and their members to reach
4. Why did they the salaries of white-collar staff two years
ago?
5. What are the going around the plant?
6. Why have Klaus and Jason got to plan their ?
Pusiness Studies 81


Listening 4: Dr Simon Kingston works for the international executive search
consultants Heidrick and Struggles. Listen to the first part of the interview and complete
the chart below.
Methods for identifying candidates
1 a Asking for Ononeit]
in newspapers or Bien diva ate Be al
Ze from the organisation
F 3 ure
ee ‘rom talking From beginning to
Sosa (0) echo ordond Pyne the
BoA Sudan businessi8) ait BL
Cross=0).oc..t os.
Listening 5: Listen again. Simon mentions three different types of experts which
his company usually speaks to at the beginning of an executive search. Who are they?
UNIT REVIEW
1. What are the different stages of the recruitment and selection process?
2. How do you draw up a job description and job specification?
3. How do you choose suitable ways of advertising a vacancy — either internally or
externally?
4. How important is training? And what are the different types of training?
5. What are induction training, on-the-job training and off-the-job training?
82 Pusiness Studies


WRITING
Task 1: Write an essay of at least 250 words about the following topic.
Off-the-job training involves learning outside the immediate work environment,
such as in a classroom or workshop setting. This method allows for focused learning
but may lack the direct relevance to daily tasks that on-the-job training provides.
Analyze the effectiveness of off-the-job training in preparing employees for their
roles. Your analysis should consider both the strengths and limitations of this approach,
including how it complements or contrasts with on-the-job training, with examples from
real-world companies or case studies discussed in your Business Studies Course.
Pusiness Studies 83


Task 2: Write an essay of at least 250 words about the following topic.
Effective recruitment is essential for building a strong and capable workforce.
The process involves attracting, selecting, and onboarding the right candidates, but it
can also present challenges such as bias, cost, and time constraints.
Discuss the importance of a well-structured recruitment process and how it
impacts the overall success of an organization.
Your discussion should include examples of best practices in recruitment and
potential pitfalls to avoid, supported by concepts from your Business Studies Course.
84 Pusiness Studies


UNIT 6
CLASSIFICATION OF BUSINESSES
LEARNING OBJECTIVES * b
After you have read and studied this 215 Xa 2
unit, you should be able to $453 >
= Consider the different sectors of the ©
: economy.
= Discuss how business enterprises
are classified into the private sector
A and the public sectors in a mixed economy.
= Analyse the difference between the public sector and private sector in mixed
economies.
= Describe the different types of business organizations and their advantages and
% disadvantages.
KEY TERMS
‘The primary sector of industry extracts and uses the natural resources of Earth to
produce raw materials used by other businesses.
The secondary sector of industry manufactures goods using the raw materials provided
by the primary sector.
The tertiary sector of industry provides services to consumers and the other sectors of
industry.
A mixed economy has both a private sector and a public (state) sector.
Public sector: the sector of the economy in which organisations are owned and
controlled by the state (government)
Private sector: The sector of the economy in which organisations are owned and
controlled by individuals.
Privatisation: The sale of state-owned assets such as public corporations to the private
sector.
‘Sole trader: a business owned and operated by one person.
Pusiness Studies 85


Limited liability: the liability of shareholders in a company is limited To only the amount
they invested.
Unlimited liability: the owners of a business can be held responsible for the debits of the
business they own. Their liability is not limited to the investment they made in the business.
Partnership: a form of business in which two or more people agree to jointly own a
business.
Shareholders: the owners of a limited company. They buy shares which represent part-
ownership of the company.
Private limited companies: businesses owned by shareholders but they cannot sell
shares to the public.
Public limited companies: businesses owned by shareholders but they can sell shares to
the public and their shares are tradeable on the Stock Exchange.
Rs honed coat pi diksiiiaesy ke
LEAD - IN
Identify the most prominent features in these photographs, which illustrate various
important elements of the infrastructure of a modern industrialized country.
hr ET
3 i .
i 5 ea 3 ow x oa J cor
3 : Tas i J - aa - :
Ary —_— - i ma Nps
BF EE - <i
r= a . “
READING 1
Stages of economic activity
As you read this book you are probably sitting at a desk or table. Most tables are
made of wood. How many different types of businesses might have been involved in
converting the wood into a finished table ready to be sold to a final consumer? What
stages of production has the wood passed through to arrive at the finished table? The
86 Pusiness Studies


diagram below shows the most likely stages in the production and sale of a wooden
table.
Stage Activity Business involved
TRAE 17 Pe TREY
hE we
. © yal
Primary oY Woodcutter
A
ght 3
Secondary v Furniture maker
Tertiary ii Retailer
Be vik 1
You will notice that there are three main
stages from the cutting down of the timber to rertiary sector
the sale of the completed table. These stages Pris i ¢ Sg
are typical of nearly all production and they are 7 or abi a
called the levels of economic — or business — inl iy & LE) 3
activity. EN : ill §
zg i)
Stage 1 is called the primary stage of 2 Cis
production. This stage involves the Earth’s 4, \_ on ¢
natural resources. Activities in the primary Fon, i sn J
sector of industry include farming, fishing, pu
forestry and the extraction of natural materials, , pe three types of business activity
such as oil and copper ore.
Pusiness Studies 87


Stage 2 is called the secondary stage of production. This stage involves taking the
materials and resources provided by the primary sector and converting them into
manufactured or processed goods. Activities in the secondary sector of industry
include building and construction, aircraft and car manufacturing, computer assembly,
bread baking.
Stage 3 is called the tertiary stage of production. This stage involves providing
services to both consumers and other businesses. Activities in the tertiary sector of
industry include transport, banking, retail, insurance, hotels and hairdressing.
Comprehension:
1. Classify the 18 following activities from the passage according to which sector
they belong to
advertising products assembling building
calculating prices cutting metal digging iron ore
distributing added value laying cables maintenance
marketing products milling metal mining Coal
packaging products pressing metal pumping oil
smelting iron transportation welding metal
2. Indicate with a tick which sector of industry each business is in.
i Computer i ‘ ; i
The quaternary sector
Some people now describe the economy as having a quaternary sector, consisting
of information services such as computing, ICT (information and communication
technologies), consultancy (offering advice to businesses) and R&D (research and
development, particularly in scientific fields). Broader definitions add the news media,
88 Pusiness Studies


libraries, universities and colleges, and other intellectual activities including culture
generally.
Discussion: In what ways have the activity in the box in Comprehension 1 above
been changed by information technology?
Mixed Economy
Nearly every country in the world has a mixed economy with private sector and a
public sector:
Private sector — businesses not owned by the government. These businesses will
make their own decisions about what to produce, how it should be produced and what
price should be charged for it. Most businesses in the private sector will aim to make a
profit. Even so, there are likely to be some government controls over these decisions.
Public sector — government (or state) owned and controlled businesses and
organisations. The government, or other public sector authority, makes decisions about
what to produce and how much to charge consumers. Some goods and services are
provided free of charge to the consumer, such as state health and education services.
The money for these comes not from the user but from the taxpayer.
In recent years, many governments have changed the balance between the private
sector and the public sector in their economies. They have done this by selling some
public sector businesses — owned and controlled by government — to private sector
businesses. This is called privatisation.
Types of Business Organisation
There are several main forms of business organisation in the private sector. These
are:
= sole traders
= partnerships
= private limited companies
= public limited companies
= franchises
= joint ventures.
Sole trader is the most common form of business organisation. It is a business
owned and operated by just one person — the owner is the sole proprietor. One of the
reasons it is such a common form of organisation is because there are so few legal
requirements to set it up.
Pusiness Studies 89


A partnership is a group or association of at least two people who agree to own
and run a business together. In some countries, such as India, there is a maximum limit
of 20 people. The partners will contribute to the capital of the business, will usually
have a say in the running of the business and will share any profits made.
Companies are jointly owned by the people who have invested in the business.
These people buy shares in the company and they are therefore called shareholders.
These shareholders appoint directors to run the business. In a private limited company,
the directors are usually the most important or majority shareholders.
This form of business organisation is most suitable for very large businesses. Most
large, well-known businesses are public limited companies as they have been able to
raise the capital to expand nationally or even internationally.
Franchising is now an extremely widespread form of business operation. The
franchisor is a business with a product or service idea that it does not want to sell to
consumers directly. Instead, it appoints franchisees to use the idea or product and to sell
it to consumers. Two of the best-known international examples of a franchise are
McDonald’s restaurants and The Body Shop.
A joint venture is when two or more businesses agree to start a new project
together, sharing the capital, the risks and the profits. Many European companies have
set up joint ventures in China with Chinese businesses, as the local managers will have
good knowledge of market needs and consumer tastes.
Discussion: What are the advantages and disadvantages of these types of
businesses?
READING 2
Manufacturing and services
Read the following statements about manufacturing and services in advanced
countries.
Which of them are in support of manufacturing in advanced countries, and which
are in support of services? Which of them do you find the most convincing, and why?
El Pusiness Studies


fan 5 Manufacturing industry wil
: Son [3 A the world's major inevitably decline. in advanced
1 Alot of service sector jobs | economies — the US, countries and be replaced by
depend on manufacturing industry. | Tapan, Germany, services, because. labour costs
Manufacturing companies provide France, Britain, Haly, are 100 high. Companies ill
| work for accountants, lawyers, | China, ete. - are major delocalize their manufacturing to
designers, marketers, advertisers, | | manufacturers of low-cost countries.
saleapeople, bankers, engineers, IT | | exported goods, This 5 47
specialists, ete. | obviously needs to J
SR | continue J
/ i pr 4) ca [Millions of tourists
\ travel fo major cities,
[4 Depending on service industries is | fod Tilers glpopl
2 Advanced countries have expertise dangerous; after the financial crisis | Chckidh cRtiaiacts and,
in higher education, R&D, ICT, in 2008, New York and London | be tal Eha rif faire,
business consulting, etc. They didn't only lose financial jobs, but | SRE
should concentrate on these | | also lots of obs in all the related | | eve: wanatactorg
strengths, rather than frying fo | | service industries: Law firme, real ifn i A
make things more cheaply than | | estate, expensive restaurants, usury pdm aab
less-developed countries. | dete. ete. Big cities need factories Eat iy
Sr Es too. Jo® 4
Vg fein br RD \{
[Cai weviafinitione suchas cok contras:accotimanimting sofivarsscan all
be outsourced fo companies in cheaper countries. Consequently, advanced
countries should concentrate on high-quality manufacturing, which requires
\% skills that cannot be outsourced or delocalized.
seat al 2 elie ie £ )
Vocabulary
Find words in the statements above that mean the following:
1. products sold to other countries
2. property: buildings such as offices, houses, flats (BrE) or apartments (AmE)
3. work done in return for money
4. to move your factories to another region or country
5. to use other companies to do work your company previously did itself
CASE STUDY 1
The main airline in Country X, Airco, is owned and managed by the central
government.
a) The government decides to privatise this airline. Explain what this means.
b) Which sector of industry is this business in? Justify your answer.
¢) Briefly analyse one argument for and one against the privatisation.
Business Sudies 91


CASE STUDY 2
Rashid has just left school. He wants to set up his own business as a gardener.
Rashid wants to be able to control his own working life. He has very few savings - just
enough to buy tools. He believes that he will need extra finance.
a) Briefly explain two benefits that Rashid could gain from setting up his own
business.
b) What form of business organisation would you recommend Rashid to use?
Explain your answer.
¢) Outline two other sources of finance that Rashid could use apart from his own
savings.
d) After several months, Rashid has too much work! His business has been very
successful in attracting new customers. He also has much work to do in his office such
as keeping accounts and ordering supplies. A friend of Rashid's, Salman, is keen to become
a partner and is taking accounting examinations, but he does not enjoy manual work.
Salman has offered to invest some of his savings into the business so that some modern
garden machinery can be bought. This would save Rashid a lot of time on some jobs.
Would you advise Rashid to take Salman as a partner in his business? Justify your
answer.
VOCABULARY
EXERCISE 1. Match the following questions and answers
1. What do we mean by the primary sector of the economy?
2. What happens to the food extracted in the primary sector?
3. So what's the secondary sector?
4. So people in the secondary sector make things?
5. And the tertiary sector?
6. Why is the number of people working in the primary sector regularly declining?
7. And why is the secondary sector getting smaller in many of these countries?
8. But not tertiary services?
92 Pusiness Studies


a. Because agricultural methods are always becoming more efficient. Western
Europe and the USA already produce too much food with only 3% of the population
working on the land.
b. Because much manufacturing can be carried out more cheaply in low-wage
economies, for example in East and South-East Asian countries like China, Hong Kong
(China), Taiwan (China), South Korea, Malaya and Vietnam.
c. Agriculture and the extraction of raw materials from the earth (coal-mining,
drilling for oil) or the sea (fishing).
d. It includes the commercial services that enable industry to produce and
distribute goods to their final consumers (trade, banking, insurance, warehousing,
transport, communications, advertising, and so on), as well as activities like education,
health care and tourism.
e. It involves the transformation of raw materials into finished products.
f. Not if the activities require a lot of training, education, know-how and
technology.
g. Only some of them. Manufacturing companies also employ finance and
marketing managers, administrative staff, maintenance staff, and so on.
Add verbs in the correct form to the following sentences.
1. Raw materials are from the ground and then either 5 Or
into finished goods.
2. Before finished goods are sold, they often have to be etc.
Exercise 2. Complete the text using the words in the box
TYPES OF BUSINESS
The simplest form of business is the individual proprietorship or (1) H
for example, a shop (US = store) or a taxi owned by a single person. If several
individuals wish to go into business together they can form a (2) ; partners
generally contribute equal capital, have equal authority in management, and share
profits or (3) . In many countries, lawyers, doctors and accountants are not
allowed to form companies, but only partnerships with unlimited (4) for
debts - which should make them act responsibly.
Pusiness Studies 93


But a partnership is not a legal entity separate from its owners; like sole traders,
partners have unlimited liability: in the case of (5) , a partner with a personal
fortune can lose it all.
Consequently, the majority of businesses are limited companies (US = (6)
), in which investors are only liable for the amount of capital they have
invested. If a limited company goes bankrupt, its assets are sold (liquidated) to pay the
debts; if the assets do not cover the debts, they remain unpaid (i.e. (7) do not
get their money back.)
In Britain, most smaller enterprises are private limited companies which cannot
offer (8) to the public; their owners can only raise capital from friends or
from banks and other ire capital institutions. A successful, growing British business can
apply to the Stock Exchange to become a public limited company; if accepted, it can
publish a (9) and offer its shares for sale on the open stock market. In
America, there is no legal distinction between private and public limited corporations,
but the equivalent of a public limited company is one (10) by the Securities
and Exchange Commission Venture.
LISTENING
Listening 1: Listen to an interview with James Sullivan, a sales manager with
Nehling and Hynes, an American credit agency, and answer the questions.
1. Which two kinds of service do credit agencies provide?
2. How large is Nehling and Hynes' database, and why is this important?
3. How are credit ratings useful?
4. What proportion of European and US firms purchase credit insurance?
5. Which advantage does credit insurance give Daryl Vincenti in Saudi Arabia?
6. On average, how much does international credit insurance cost?
Listening 2: Listen to the conversation between Paul, a manager, and his
assistant, Jenny. Complete the schedule with the times or time periods, using the
appropriate prepositions.
94 Pusiness Studies


1 Jenny is picking up tickets ( fr p
this evening, before 600. | J.
2 Jenny is dropping tickets off at office oa
3 Paul's flight leaves.
Te ——
PEA CT — _—
4 Check-in opens
5 Finance meeting finishes oy
6 Pauls kids go to bed is,
7 Paul is staying in the States 4 NS
$s
8 Paul is attending six meetings .
9 Paul's return flight leaves
10 Paul is preparing the Merosom pitch ih
11 Merosom announce their decision HA
12 Paul will read files for New York meetings a he
ET fori
GEES oi.
Listening 3: Listen to a conversation between Riaz Hussain and Frederick,the
front office manager at the Jeddah Royal BeachResort, and complete the customer
database entries.
Customer: Customer: Customer:
Company: Company: Company:
Company credit rating: Company credit ating: Company credit rating:
Current credit mit: Current crt limit: Current credit imi:
Credit mit requested: Credit imi requested: Credit limit requested:
Notes: Notes: Notes:
Pusiness Studies 95


Task 2: Write an essay of at least 250 words about the following topic.
The traditional classification of business sectors (primary, secondary, tertiary)
has evolved with the rise of the knowledge economy and the digital age.
Discuss the characteristics of each sector, including emerging sectors, and provide
examples of businesses operating within each.
Analyze how the sectors are interconnected and interdependent, supported by
what you have learnt in your Business Studies Course.
98 Pusiness: Studies


UNIT 7
PRODUCTION
LEARNING OBJECTIVES
After you have read and studied this
unit, you should be able to /A Y 5
ped Kd
= Identify what is the production and LS | é
operation management ja coc ! | D\
= Discuss what lean production is + i
and how it can be achieved.
Consider the benefits and limitations of different production methods
KEY TERMS
Production: the process of converting inputs such as land, labour and capital into
saleable goods, for example shoes and cell phones.
Inventories: the stock of raw materials, work-in-progress and finished goods held by a
business.
Lean production: the production of goods and services with the minimum waste of
resources.
Job production: the production of items one at a fime.
Batch production: the production of goods in batches. Each batch passes through one
stage of production before moving onto the next stage.
Flow production: the production of very large quantities of identical goods using a
continuously moving process.
Just-in-time (JIT) is a production method that involves reducing or virtually eliminating the
need fo hold inventories of raw materials or unsold inventories of the finished product.
Pusiness Studies: 99


LEAD- IN
- What do production and quality managers do?
- What particular skills do you think production and operations managers require?
Do you think you have these skills yourself?
- Would you like to work in this field?
- What do you think the objectives of a production department usually are?
READING 1: Production and Operation Management
Manufacturing companies require three basic functions: finance, production or
operations, and marketing. Finance raises the capital to buy the equipment to start the
business, production or operations makes the product, and marketing sells and distributes
it. Operations management is also of crucial importance to service companies.
The objectives of the production department are usually to produce a specific
product, on schedule, at minimum cost. But there may be other criteria, such as
concentrating on quality and product reliability, producing the maximum possible
volume of output, fully utilizing the plant or the work force, reducing lead time,
generating the maximum return on assets, or ensuring flexibility for product or volume
changes. Some of these objectives are clearly incompatible, and most companies have to
choose between price, quality, and flexibility. There is an elementary trade-off between
low cost and quality, and another between low cost and the flexibility to customize
products or to deliver in a very short lead time.
Production and operations management obviously involves production plants and
factories or service branches, and the equipment in them, parts (raw materials or
supplies), processes (the steps by which production or services are carried out), and
planning and control systems (the procedures used by management to operate and
monitor the system). But it also involves people - the personnel or human resources,
who will always be necessary in production and operations, despite increasing
automation. People are particularly important in organizations offering a service rather
than making a product. Such organizations exist to serve the customer, but it can also be
argued that they have to serve their workforce, because workers will often treat the
public the same way that management treats them, so staff training and motivation are
clearly important.
Manufacturing companies all have to decide how much research and development
(R&D) to do. Should they do fundamental or applied research themselves, or use
research institutes, universities, and independent research laboratories, or simply license
100 Pusiness Studies


product or service designs from other organisations as necessary? Companies are faced
with a 'make or buy" decision for every item, process or service.
Decisions about what products to make or what services to offer have to take into
account a company’s operational capability, and labour, capital and equipment
requirements. Introducing products obviously requires accurate sales forecasting. If it is
necessary to construct a new plant or facility, decisions have to be made concerning its
location, its size or capacity, the floor layout, the hiring of staff, the purchase of
equipment, the necessary level of inventory of parts and finished products, and so on.
Comprehension
I. Decide if these statements are TRUE or FALSE
1. Production or operations management is important to all businesses.
2. Production departments usually concentrate on quality, quantity, and flexibility.
3. Workers who are treated well will probably be more productive.
4. Large companies are generally obliged to do their own research and
development.
5. Decision-making concerning new products or the building of new production
facilities follows sales forecasting.
II. Match up these words to make collocations
1. human a. companies
2. lead b. laboratories
3. manufacturing c. management
4. operations d. materials
5. raw €. on assets
6. research f. resources
7. return g. time
8. staff h. training
III. Match up the following verbs and nouns
1. do a. capital
2. make b. customers
3. forecast c. aplant
4. hire d. a product
5. purchase e. research
6. raise f. sales
7. serve g. staff
8. utilize h. raw materials
Pusiness Studies 101


READING 2
Lean production covers a variety of techniques used by businesses to cut down
on waste of resources, including time, and therefore increase efficiency. It aims to
reduce the time it takes for a product to be developed and become available in the shops
for sale. Lean production cuts out any activities which do not add value for the customer
and this can apply to services as well.
There are seven types of waste that can occur in production:
= Overproduction — producing goods before they have been ordered by
customers. This results in high storage costs and possible damage to goods
while in storage.
= Waiting — when goods are not moving or being processed in any way, waste is
occurring.
= Transportation — moving goods around unnecessarily causes waste and is not
adding value to the product. Goods may also be damaged when they are being
moved around.
» Unnecessary inventory — if there is too much inventory then this takes up
space, may get in the way of production and costs money.
= Motion — any actions, including bending or stretching movements of the body
of the employee, wastes time. It may also be a health and safety risk for the
employees. This also applies to the movement of machines which may not be
necessary.
= Over-processing — if complex machinery is being used to perform simple tasks
then this is wasteful. Some activities in producing the goods may not be
necessary and may be because the design of the product is poor.
= Defects — any faults require the goods being fixed and time can be wasted in
inspecting the products
Lean production can be achieved by using the following methods:
Kaizen means ‘continuous improvement’ in Japanese and its focus is on the
elimination of waste. The improvement does not come from investing in new
technology or equipment but through the ideas of the workers themselves. Small groups
of workers meet regularly to discuss problems and possible solutions. This has proved
effective because no one knows the problems that exist better than the workers who
102 Pusiness: Studies:


work with them all the time, so they are often the best ones to think of ways to
overcome them.
Kaizen eliminates waste, for example, by getting rid of large amounts of inventory
or reducing the amount of time taken for workers to walk between jobs so that they
eliminate unnecessary movements. When Kaizen is introduced, the factory floor is re-
organised by repositioning machines tightly together in cells, in order to improve the
flow of production through the factory. The floor will be open and marked with colour-
coded lines which map out the flow of materials through the production process.
Just-in-time or JIT is a production method which focuses on reducing or
virtually eliminating the need to hold inventories of raw materials or components and on
reducing work-in-progress and inventories of the finished product. The raw materials or
components are delivered just in time to be used in the production process, the making
of any parts is undertaken just in time to be used in the next stage of production and the
finished product is made just in time to be delivered to the customer.
- All this reduces the costs of holding inventory, as no raw materials and
components are ordered to keep in the warehouse just in case they are needed.
- Warehouse space is not needed, again reducing costs.
- The finished product is sold quickly and so money will come back to the
business more quickly, helping its cash flow.
To operate just-in-time, inventories of raw materials, work-in-progress and
finished products are run down and no extra inventory is kept. The business therefore
needs very reliable suppliers and an efficient system of ordering raw materials or
components.
Cell production is where the production line is divided into separate, self-
contained units (cells), each making an identifiable part of the finished product, instead
of having a flow or mass production line. This method of production improves the
morale of the employees and makes them work harder so they become more efficient.
The employees feel more valued and are less likely to strike or cause disruption.
Comprehension
1. Complete this text about 'Kaizen' using the words in the box.
competitors culture cycle improvement
marketplace metrics process resistance
Pusiness Studies 103


Kaizen is a term used in lean manufacturing to mean continuous (1) pillt
describes a corporate (2) where everyone works proactively (= taking action
before a problem develops) to improve the manufacturing (3) . This is essential
in today's changing (4) - someone is going to come up with a better, faster or
cheaper way, and it will either be you or your (5) B
How can you know if continuous improvement is happening? You establish a
system of monitoring key (6) (= variables that can be measured). For example,
average (7) times, or the time it takes to successfully complete a changeover.
And employees must be involved, otherwise there will be a lot of (8), s
Match the words in the box with the definitions below:
delivery obsolescence shortages discounts inventory
opportunity cost production Tun storage theft
1. a business's stock of raw materials, component parts, supplies, work in process,
or finished product:
2. a period of producing one particular product without adapting the production
equipment
3. becoming out of date; being replaced by something newer and better or more
fashionable
4. keeping things for use in the future
5. taking something that belongs to someone else; stealing thing
6. supplying the customer with something that has been ordered
7. the benefits or advantages lost by spending money in one way rather than another
8. price reductions
9. insufficient supply to meet demand
2. Complete the text using the words in the box above.
There are obviously advantages to having a large (1) of raw materials
and component parts. It gives you protection against temporary price rises, and delays in
the (2) of raw materials due to (3) strikes, orders that get lost,
incorrect or defective shipments, and so on. You can also take advantage of quantity (4)
in purchasing. Having a large inventory of finished goods allows you to meet
variation in product demand, and to be more flexible in product scheduling, with longer
production lead times and reduced costs because of larger (5) with fewer set-
104 Pusiness Studies


product or service designs from other organisations as necessary? Companies are faced
with a 'make or buy" decision for every item, process or service.
Decisions about what products to make or what services to offer have to take into
account a company’s operational capability, and labour, capital and equipment
requirements. Introducing products obviously requires accurate sales forecasting. If it is
necessary to construct a new plant or facility, decisions have to be made concerning its
location, its size or capacity, the floor layout, the hiring of staff, the purchase of
equipment, the necessary level of inventory of parts and finished products, and so on.
Comprehension
I. Decide if these statements are TRUE or FALSE
1. Production or operations management is important to all businesses.
2. Production departments usually concentrate on quality, quantity, and flexibility.
3. Workers who are treated well will probably be more productive.
4. Large companies are generally obliged to do their own research and
development.
5. Decision-making concerning new products or the building of new production
facilities follows sales forecasting.
II. Match up these words to make collocations
1. human a. companies
2. lead b. laboratories
3. manufacturing c. management
4. operations d. materials
5. raw €. on assets
6. research f. resources
7. return g. time
8. staff h. training
III. Match up the following verbs and nouns
1. do a. capital
2. make b. customers
3. forecast c. aplant
4. hire d. a product
5. purchase e. research
6. raise f. sales
7. serve g. staff
8. utilize h. raw materials
Pusiness Studies 101


READING 2
Lean production covers a variety of techniques used by businesses to cut down
on waste of resources, including time, and therefore increase efficiency. It aims to
reduce the time it takes for a product to be developed and become available in the shops
for sale. Lean production cuts out any activities which do not add value for the customer
and this can apply to services as well.
There are seven types of waste that can occur in production:
= Overproduction — producing goods before they have been ordered by
customers. This results in high storage costs and possible damage to goods
while in storage.
= Waiting — when goods are not moving or being processed in any way, waste is
occurring.
= Transportation — moving goods around unnecessarily causes waste and is not
adding value to the product. Goods may also be damaged when they are being
moved around.
» Unnecessary inventory — if there is too much inventory then this takes up
space, may get in the way of production and costs money.
= Motion — any actions, including bending or stretching movements of the body
of the employee, wastes time. It may also be a health and safety risk for the
employees. This also applies to the movement of machines which may not be
necessary.
= Over-processing — if complex machinery is being used to perform simple tasks
then this is wasteful. Some activities in producing the goods may not be
necessary and may be because the design of the product is poor.
= Defects — any faults require the goods being fixed and time can be wasted in
inspecting the products
Lean production can be achieved by using the following methods:
Kaizen means ‘continuous improvement’ in Japanese and its focus is on the
elimination of waste. The improvement does not come from investing in new
technology or equipment but through the ideas of the workers themselves. Small groups
of workers meet regularly to discuss problems and possible solutions. This has proved
effective because no one knows the problems that exist better than the workers who
102 Pusiness: Studies:


work with them all the time, so they are often the best ones to think of ways to
overcome them.
Kaizen eliminates waste, for example, by getting rid of large amounts of inventory
or reducing the amount of time taken for workers to walk between jobs so that they
eliminate unnecessary movements. When Kaizen is introduced, the factory floor is re-
organised by repositioning machines tightly together in cells, in order to improve the
flow of production through the factory. The floor will be open and marked with colour-
coded lines which map out the flow of materials through the production process.
Just-in-time or JIT is a production method which focuses on reducing or
virtually eliminating the need to hold inventories of raw materials or components and on
reducing work-in-progress and inventories of the finished product. The raw materials or
components are delivered just in time to be used in the production process, the making
of any parts is undertaken just in time to be used in the next stage of production and the
finished product is made just in time to be delivered to the customer.
- All this reduces the costs of holding inventory, as no raw materials and
components are ordered to keep in the warehouse just in case they are needed.
- Warehouse space is not needed, again reducing costs.
- The finished product is sold quickly and so money will come back to the
business more quickly, helping its cash flow.
To operate just-in-time, inventories of raw materials, work-in-progress and
finished products are run down and no extra inventory is kept. The business therefore
needs very reliable suppliers and an efficient system of ordering raw materials or
components.
Cell production is where the production line is divided into separate, self-
contained units (cells), each making an identifiable part of the finished product, instead
of having a flow or mass production line. This method of production improves the
morale of the employees and makes them work harder so they become more efficient.
The employees feel more valued and are less likely to strike or cause disruption.
Comprehension
1. Complete this text about 'Kaizen' using the words in the box.
competitors culture cycle improvement
marketplace metrics process resistance
Pusiness Studies 103


Kaizen is a term used in lean manufacturing to mean continuous (1) pillt
describes a corporate (2) where everyone works proactively (= taking action
before a problem develops) to improve the manufacturing (3) . This is essential
in today's changing (4) - someone is going to come up with a better, faster or
cheaper way, and it will either be you or your (5) B
How can you know if continuous improvement is happening? You establish a
system of monitoring key (6) (= variables that can be measured). For example,
average (7) times, or the time it takes to successfully complete a changeover.
And employees must be involved, otherwise there will be a lot of (8), s
Match the words in the box with the definitions below:
delivery obsolescence shortages discounts inventory
opportunity cost production Tun storage theft
1. a business's stock of raw materials, component parts, supplies, work in process,
or finished product:
2. a period of producing one particular product without adapting the production
equipment
3. becoming out of date; being replaced by something newer and better or more
fashionable
4. keeping things for use in the future
5. taking something that belongs to someone else; stealing thing
6. supplying the customer with something that has been ordered
7. the benefits or advantages lost by spending money in one way rather than another
8. price reductions
9. insufficient supply to meet demand
2. Complete the text using the words in the box above.
There are obviously advantages to having a large (1) of raw materials
and component parts. It gives you protection against temporary price rises, and delays in
the (2) of raw materials due to (3) strikes, orders that get lost,
incorrect or defective shipments, and so on. You can also take advantage of quantity (4)
in purchasing. Having a large inventory of finished goods allows you to meet
variation in product demand, and to be more flexible in product scheduling, with longer
production lead times and reduced costs because of larger (5) with fewer set-
104 Pusiness Studies


ups. If you have a long delivery lead time there is always a risk that some customers
may go to other suppliers, or that new competitors will enter the market. On the other
hand, keeping an inventory involves various costs. (6) requires warehousing
facilities, handling goods involves labour costs, and unsold goods have to be insured.
All this money could perhaps be more profitably spent in other ways: it is always
necessary to consider the (7) of the capital involved.
Furthermore, there is always a risk of (8) , especially for high-tech
products with a short life cycle and of (9) or breakage. If an inventory of
finished goods gets too large, it may be necessary to reduce prices to stimulate demand.
All these disadvantages led to the development of the just-in-time (J1T)
production system, which does away with inventories.
Match the responses on the right with the questions on the left:
A 5 | a. American companies have developed versions of JIT, which
LED what's hails | they call lean production, or stockless production, or
production, then? | continuous flow manufacture. But over here there's always
DST (1) SE | the risk of strikes or other problems, so companies prefer to
keep reserve inventories. Not so much just-in-time as just-
exactly? i
i in-case ...
3. And this is a Japanese | b. It's a system in which products are ‘pulled’ through the
idea? | manufacturing process from the end, rather than 'pushed'
through from the beginning.
4. And fron are | c Several. There's no risk of overproduction if demand falls, or
delivered just when | of idle workers waiting for work-in-process to arrive. It
they're needed, 80 | shortens throughput time, which increases productivity. And
there's no inventory? | jt probably means that defects or quality problems are
Are (fe Oh o al noticed more quickly.
. Isn't that (gat
i oi id. d. Sure, but the big Japanese manufacturers have large
mean, if just one | ji
7 5 hal networks of subcontractors, and the whole system is based
supplier doesn't deliver | 5 5
3 . | on long-term relationships and mutual trust.
on time, or delivers
defective components ... | That's the idea. JIT regards inventories as avoidable costs,
{rather than as assets.
6.Are there other | f. f Well, nothing is bought or produced until it is needed.
advantages, apart from | Each section of the production process makes the necessary
reduced inventory | units only when they are required by the next stage of the
costs? | manufacturing process, or by distributors or customers
TAS wt dont ei iit | g Yes. The system is usually credited to Taiichi Ohno at
Toyota in the early 1950s, but he said he got the idea from
Europe and the States? | A 3
looking at American supermarkets.
i
Pusiness: Studies 105


METHODS OF PRODUCTION
Job Production: This is where products are made specifically to order, for
example, a customer would order a particular dish and the producer would make it.
Each order is different, and may or may not be repeated. Other examples include:
specialist machinery manufacturers that will produce a machine for another business to
meet a particular specification, bridges, ships, made-to-measure suits, cinema films, or
individual computer programs that perform specialised tasks.
Batch Production: This is where similar products are made in blocks or batches. A
certain number of one product is made, then a certain number of another product is
made, and so on. The producer made a batch of one type of dish and then made a batch
of another type of dish, and so on. Other examples include: a small bakery making
batches of bread, several houses built together using the same design, furniture production
(a certain number of tables are made, then a certain number of chairs), or clothing (a
batch of a particular size of jeans is produced and then a batch of another size).
Flow Production: This is when large quantities of a product are produced in a
continuous process. It is sometimes referred to as mass production because of the large
quantity of a standardised product that is produced.
It is called flow production because products look as if they are flowing down the
production line (they move continuously along a production line). The basic ingredients
are put together at one end of the production line and then the product moves down and
more parts are added, and so on, until the product is finished and packaged ready for
sale. Large numbers of identical products are made and the costs of production are low
(the business will gain from economies of scale). Examples of products produced in this
way include: cars, cameras, televisions, packaged foods and drinks; in fact any mass
produced, standardised product which is sold to a mass market will be produced in this
way.
Comprehension What are the benefits and limitations of these methods of
production?
CASE STUDY
Sita Ltd produces clothes for babies. It has been in business for ten years and has
seen sales increase rapidly throughout this time. It employs 50 production workers who
use sewing machines. The production manager wants to introduce new sewing machines
that are twice as fast as the old ones. It will allow the business to produce higher quality
baby clothes as well as gain from other benefits of new technology. The average selling
106 Pusiness Studies


price of an item of clothing is $10 with material costing $1. However, with new
machines it will allow the selling price to increase to $15 and material will only cost $2.
a. Why might the production manager want to introduce new technology at Sita
Ltd?
b. Sita Ltd uses batch production in the production of baby clothes.
= What is meant by batch production?
= Why does Sita Ltd use batch production and not flow production?
VOCABULARY
Exercise 1. Complete each sentence I - 15 with two words to make an expression
connected with production and operations. The first word should come from the left-
hand box, and the second word should come from the right-hand box. Each sentence is
followed by a definition of the expression you need. Use each word once only.
assembly capacity finished lead | allocation capacity chain costs
manufacturing offshore optimum planned defects goods line materials
product purchasing random raw resource
supply zero obsolescence planning power
production recall sampling time
1. Unless our supplier reduces its , we will have to radically
change the way we operate. (the length of time that lapses between placing an order for
something and receiving it)
2. The recession has led to a drop in overall , which means that
we will have to reduce output on some of our less popular lines. (the quantity of goods
or services which can be bought by a group of people, a sector, an organization, etc)
3. We are currently operating at , which means that we can
afford to keep prices lower for our clients. (the most efficient level of production or
output, with the result that production costs are kept to a minimum)
4. She works on an in a factory that makes electronic goods. (a
production system where a product moves slowly through a factory as new parts are
added to it)
5. We do not allow visitors to come onto the factory floor, but you can view our
range of in the showroom. (complete products that are ready to sell)
Pusiness Studies 107


6. The company had to put out a to its customers when several
potentially dangerous faults were discovered. (the removal from sale of an item that
might be dangerous to the people who have bought it)
7. We will be unable to compete successfully in the domestic market unless we
reduce our costs by taking advantage of . (the manufacture of goods in
another country for import to the domestic market)
8. Our company builds into most of its electronic products, so
that our customers are forced or obliged to update them more often. (designing products
so that they have a limited lifespan and so need to be replaced more often)
9. We make packaging for frozen food, and are an important part of the
for the industry. (the manufacturers, wholesalers, distributors, etc, who make,
deliver and sell products to customers)
10. None of our products are allowed to leave the factory unless there are
present. (having no faults)
11. Without effective , we will not be able to produce enough
goods to keep up with demand. (assigning people and machines to projects in a way that
optimises production and results)
12. The manufacture of most items relies on a reliable source of
such as wood, iron ore or crude petroleum. (basic items which have to be treated in
some way before they can be used)
13. If can be kept to a minimum, we can keep market prices at a
minimum. (the money needed to make a product)
14. We don't check every item before we send it for sale. We usually find that
gives us a good idea of quality. (testing a few items from one batch of
products before they are sent for sale)
15. Our company takes very seriously: we never start a project
without working out how many people it will need, and the equipment they will require.
(measuring the amount of work that can be done within a certain amount of time, and
how many people, machines, etc, it will need)
Exercise 2. Read about the relationship between WIP (work-in- progress) and
different types of production process. As you read, imagine an example for each one.
108 Pusiness: Studies


1. In a continuous process there is a network of complex, capital-intensive
machinery through which WIP flows without interruption. One example would be
2. In a mass process, there is an assembly line where WIP moves along the line
past workstations carrying out fixed operations. One example would be 3
3. In a batch process, machinery and equipment are located in 'cells around the
plant, and WIP moves in groups to different cells; in each cell a variety of specialized
operations can be carried out. One example would be 2
4. In job production, there is a fixed position layout where the WIP does not
move, instead operations are scheduled in sequence on it. One example would be
5. In a large-scale project, the WIP is often off-site, or at the Customer's own
premises. One example would be >
Now complete each paragraph with the most appropriate example: construction of
a building, an automobile plant, aircraft manufacture, clothing manufacture, steel
making.
Exercise 3. Match up the half — sentences below, which define some basic terms.
1. Inventory (AmE and BrE) or stock | A. and other facilities used in the
(BrE) is a company's reserves production process.
2 Ce is any of the pieces or B. arising from large-scale production.
parts .
3. Capacity is: the’ (maximum) irate. of C. from other companies rather than
output manufacturing them.
4. Plant is a collective word for all the | D. involved in producing and
buildings, machines, equipment, delivering goods or a service.
5. Location means the geographical | E. of a factory or other facility.
SE ero F. of raw materials, parts, work in
6. A supply chain is a network of | process, and finished products.
organizations ;
5 . G. such as manufacturing a product or
7. Outsourcing means buying products or Men vo
5 delivering it to a customer.
processed materials
8. Economies of scale are the cost savings | H- that can be achieved from a
9. Lead time is the time needed to PRESeibuiplace
perform an activity I. that make up a product or machine.
Pusiness Studies 109


LISTENING
Listening 1: Listen to an interview with Charlie Wang, President of New China
Packaging, a design consultancy based in Taipei, and mark these statements T (true) or
F (false).
1. Branding is not enough to differentiate almost identical products.
2. Business guru Jack Trout thinks that companies overcommunicate their
difference.
3. Most customers decide which product to buy before going to the store.
4. In the past, design teams were not told about financial and manufacturing
problems so as not to limit their creativity.
5. Creative ideas are often simplified and adapted because focus groups don't like
them.
6. The task force can't leave their hotel until every member of the team is
enthusiastic about the new concept.
7. Consumers are not always conscious of what they need.
8. New China Packaging's task forces need months or years to deliver a consumer-
validated package.
Listening 2: Listen to a presentation of the ChartTech i3. What are its three main
features?
yma 5005. ai
Pree A -g
~ $3 Omg) ck
ha Neots 58 We
: - ADS re ay
SN fas 2 GP.
(2), LER elo
Eiger Fs
RAIN
Sa a Ca =
Id Ne Te Copa ——
ps ~E) "8 " %) > a [aca
ON Ao
49.0! 7 0 [<a BAG
110 Pusiness Studies


Listening 3: Listen to a presentation of the Pingman, a new personal GPS
tracking device which can be used to locate children, elderly people, animals or mobile
staff and answer the questions.
1. How does the presenter get the audience's attention and interest?
2. What is the objective of the presentation?
3. How long will the presentation last, and what is the next step?
4. What does the presenter say about questions?
5. What subjects will be covered in the three sections of the presentation?
6. Which part of the presentation do we not hear?
7. What does the presenter do at the beginning of the conclusion?
8. What does the presenter ask the audience to do?
Listening 4: Listen to an extract from the marketing meeting at Big Jack's. What
two decisions are made?
AT OE, I 2
2,9. oon
a ‘oe %% +o
Big pizzas, big value! |© ¢ + +48 A
23 srs i arg Hon, Kowims wd Ww Tore I PS No ° /8
dine-in. parties. takeout or 24,7 home delivery BN fl Q J
Call us now on 2893 6161 3 E:3 a Ew
Become a Big Jack's franchisee - call 2693 5468 bh N A p
BOR A ee RCT * By © &
a LT TE A
Listening 5: Listen again and list the ten suggestions made by Billie and Mick.
Which ones does Jack like?
UNIT REVIEW
= What is the production and operation management?
= What is lean production? How can lean production be achieved?
= What is job production, batch production and flow production?
® What are the benefits and limitations of different production methods?
Pusiness Studies 111


WRITING
Task 1: Write an essay of at least 250 words about the following topic.
Lean manufacturing principles aim to eliminate waste and improve efficiency in
production processes.
Explain the key principles of lean manufacturing, such as just-in-time (JIT)
inventory, continuous improvement (Kaizen), and Cell production.
Discuss the benefits and challenges of implementing lean manufacturing
practices, supported by what you have learnt in your Business Studies Course.
112 Pusiness Studies


Task 2: Write an essay of at least 250 words about the following topic.
Choosing the right method of production is crucial for a company’s success, as
it impacts costs, efficiency, and product quality. However, the choice of production
method must align with the company's goals and market demands.
Analyze how the selection of a production method influences a company’s
competitiveness and ability to meet customer needs.
Your analysis should consider the implications of choosing job production, batch
production, or flow production, with examples from real-world companies or case
studies discussed in your Business Studies Course.
Pusiness Studies 113


UNIT 8
LOGISTICS
LEARNING OBJECTIVES 7 A ———_—
After you have read and studied this ] fn
unit, you should be able to x) Bt eine i
= Compare different strategies for FF Wasi NC
stock control and manufacturin, rd hy Pla,
9 pr Fy . : J fo
= Discuss potential supply chain risks ~~ 5° 4 Bs =| [8 ov
KEY TERMS oo
Logistics - the business activity that involves planning, implementing, and controlling the
physical flow of materials, final goods, and related information from points of origin to
points of consumption to meet customer requirements at a profit.
Inbound logistics - the area of logistics that involves bringing raw materials, packaging,
other goods and services, and information from suppliers to producers.
Materials handling - the movement of goods within a warehouse, from warehouses to
the factory floor, and from the factory floor to various workstations.
Outbound logistics - the area of logistics that involves managing the flow of finished
products and information to business buyers and ultimate consumers (people like you and
me).
Reverse logistics -the area of logistics that involves bringing goods back to the
manufacturer because of defects or for recycling
114 Pusiness Studies


LEAD- IN
In a manufacturing or retail business, what are the advantages and disadvantages of:
- simply satisfying current demand
- planning to meet (possible) future demand?
READING 1:
An Introduction to Logistics
In the modern world, where goods and services are constantly in motion, the
concept of logistics plays a crucial role. It's the backbone of any successful business,
ensuring that the right products reach the right place at the right time. But what exactly
is logistics, and why is it so important?
Simply put, logistics is the process of planning, implementing, and controlling the
efficient, effective flow and storage of goods, services, and related information from the
point of origin to the point of consumption. It encompasses a wide range of activities,
including:
Procurement: Acquiring the necessary raw materials and components.
Production: Transforming raw materials into finished goods.
Warehousing: Storing goods before and after production.
Transportation: Moving goods from one location to another.
Distribution: Delivering finished goods to customers.
Customer service: Handling customer inquiries and resolving issues.
Logistics is closely intertwined with supply chain management, which is the
overall process of managing the flow of goods and services from suppliers to customers.
Supply chain management takes a broader view, encompassing not only the physical
movement of goods but also the information flow, financial transactions, and
relationships between all parties involved.
Within the supply chain, we can distinguish between inbound logistics and
outbound logistics. Inbound logistics deals with the flow of materials and resources into
the organization, from suppliers to the production facility. This includes activities like
sourcing, procurement, transportation, and warehousing of raw materials. Outbound
logistics, on the other hand, focuses on the flow of finished goods out of the
Pusiness Studies 115


organization, from the production facility to customers. This involves activities like
packaging, warehousing, order fulfillment, and transportation.
Effective logistics is crucial for businesses to remain competitive in today's
dynamic market. It allows companies to:
Reduce costs: By optimizing transportation routes, minimizing inventory levels,
and streamlining processes, businesses can save significant amounts of money.
Improve efficiency: Smooth logistics operations ensure that goods are delivered
on time and in the desired condition, leading to increased customer satisfaction and
improved productivity.
Enhance customer service: Fast and reliable delivery is a key factor in customer
satisfaction. By providing excellent logistics services, businesses can build strong
customer relationships and loyalty.
Gain a competitive advantage: Companies with efficient logistics systems can
respond quickly to market changes, adapt to new demands, and offer competitive
pricing, giving them an edge over their rivals.
Two key strategies employed in logistics are the push strategy and the pull
strategy. The push strategy focuses on producing and distributing goods based on
forecasted demand. This approach involves pushing products through the supply chain,
regardless of actual customer demand. The pull strategy, on the other hand, relies on
actual customer demand to drive production and distribution. This approach pulls
products through the supply chain as orders are placed, minimizing inventory levels and
reducing waste.
The choice between the push strategy and the pull strategy depends on several
factors, including the nature of the product, the predictability of demand, and the
company's overall business strategy. In some cases, a hybrid approach combining
elements of both strategies may be the most effective.
Logistics is a complex and dynamic field that requires careful planning, efficient
execution, and constant adaptation to changing market conditions. By understanding the
key principles of logistics and applying them effectively, businesses can achieve
significant improvements in their operations, enhance customer satisfaction, and gain a
competitive advantage in the marketplace.
Reading comprehension
1. What is the primary focus of logistics?
116 Pusiness Studies


a) Marketing and advertising
b) Financial management
c) Efficient flow of goods and services
d) Human resource management
2. Which of the following is NOT a key activity involved in logistics?
a) Procurement
b) Production
c) Customer service
d) Public relations
3. What is the difference between inbound logistics and outbound logistics?
a) Inbound logistics deals with raw materials, while outbound logistics deals with
finished goods.
b) Inbound logistics focuses on customer service, while outbound logistics focuses
on production.
c) Inbound logistics uses a pull strategy, while outbound logistics uses a push
strategy.
d) There is no difference between inbound and outbound logistics.
4. What is the primary benefit of efficient logistics for businesses?
a) Increased marketing reach
b) Improved employee morale
¢) Reduced costs and improved efficiency
d) Enhanced brand awareness
5. Which strategy relies on forecasted demand to drive production and
distribution?
a) Pull strategy
b) Push strategy
¢) Hybrid strategy
d) None of the above
Pusiness: Studies 117


6. What is the main advantage of the pull strategy?
a) Reduced inventory levels and waste
b) Increased production capacity
¢) Improved customer service
d) Lower transportation costs
7. What is supply chain management?
a) The process of managing the flow of goods and services from suppliers to
customers.
b) The process of managing the flow of information within an organization.
¢) The process of managing financial transactions within an organization.
d) The process of managing human resources within an organization.
8. Which of the following is NOT a factor influencing the choice between a push
and pull strategy?
a) Nature of the product
b) Predictability of demand
¢) Company's overall business strategy
d) Government regulations
9. What is the significance of logistics in today's business environment?
a) It helps businesses to reduce costs and improve efficiency.
b) It helps businesses to gain a competitive advantage in the marketplace.
¢) It helps businesses to enhance customer service and build strong relationships.
d) All of the above
10. Which of the following is an example of a company that relies heavily on
efficient logistics?
a) A local bakery
b) A software development company
¢) An online retailer
d) A consulting firm
118 Pusiness Studies


Discussion Questions:
11. How does logistics impact the overall success of a business?
12. What are the challenges and opportunities associated with implementing
effective logistics strategies?
13. How can technology be used to improve logistics operations?
14. What are the ethical considerations involved in logistics?
15. What are the future trends in logistics?
READING 2: Pull and Push Strategies
You are going to read about pull and push strategies for stock control and
manufacturing, but first, match the words and definitions below.
1. accurate A. a guess of what the size or amount of something might be
2. agile B. a statement of what is expected to happen in the future
3. estimate (n.) | C- able to move quickly and easily
4. forecast (n.) D. Correct, exact and without any mistakes
5. lean (adj.) E. designing and managing the flow of goods, information and
A other resources
iy E gy | F- done with the hands
NER) G. (of production) using small quantities and avoiding any waste
8. replenish A ©
H. to fill something up again
These eight paragraphs make up a text about inventories, pull and push
strategies, and Just-In-Time (JIT) production. Put them in the right order to make a
logical text. Two have already been done.
Manufacturing companies can produce according to pull or push strategies. (1)
Historically, Kanban was a manual system in which cards were placed in
component bins in warehouses as a signal that items needed replenishing; today, of
course, advanced software is used. ()
Apart from JIT, other names for pull strategies include lean production, stockless
production, continuous flow manufacture and agile manufacturing. In all these systems,
nothing is bought or produced until it is needed. ()
This replenishment strategy was famously developed as Just-In-Time (JIT)
production by Toyota in Japan in the 1950s. The most common JIT system is called
Kanban, a Japanese word approximately meaning 'visual card’. ()
Pusiness Studies: 119


Supplies are scheduled to meet expected demand, but because demand forecasts
are not always accurate, push strategies often incorporate safety stocks and safety lead
times. ()
In other words, this is a replenishment strategy: both production and suppliers are
constantly reacting to the actual consumption of components, rather than planning ahead. ()
With a pull strategy, a company manufactures according to current demand, which
is satisfied from (a small) inventory. When pieces are removed from stock,
replacements are automatically ordered from suppliers. ()
With a push strategy such as Manufacturing Resources Planning (MRP), on the
contrary, production is based on estimates of future demand, and begins according to
the planned production lead time. (7)
Comprehension
Match up the following half-sentences.
1. Pull strategies are based on A. current demand.
2. Pull systems only buy or produce B. estimated future demand.
3. Kanban systems signal C. safety stocks and lead times.
4. Push strategies are based on D. that items need to be replaced.
5. Push strategies often allow for E. things when they are needed.
READING 3: Manufacturing supply chain work flow
Look at this flowchart for a typical manufacturing supply chain, and number the
sentences below in the order that they happen.
Reading: Manufacturing supply chain work flow
Santonces below reece a cYEical manufacturing supply chain, and number the
G3
i) ®
120 Pusiness Studies


_1___ The sales department identifies a need for a product, and tells the
marketing department about it.
As stock has now been used the computer system generates a request for
new stock.
Customer services take orders and input them to the computer system.
_10___ Customers place orders through customer services.
Finished goods are put into inventory in a warehouse awaiting orders, and
the company computer system is updated.
Suppliers receive orders and despatch raw materials and components to the
manufacturing site on agreed dates.
The marketing department researches the project, and forwards a detailed
business plan to the Business Unit Manager.
The plan is approved and passed to the analysts to prepare and implement
the manufacturing process.
The analysts pass details of raw materials and components to purchasing.
The order is sent to the warehouse
The product is manufactured.
The purchasing, logistics and transport departments plan the purchase of
materials and their delivery to the manufacturing plant.
The re-order process generates a request to the purchasing department to
place new orders with the suppliers.
The senior business managers make a decision on the project.
The transport company collects the consignment and delivers it to the
customer.
CASE STUDY: Risk analysis
Companies might choose not to use suppliers from a country if they are unsure
about its future political or financial stability, or about future industrial relations (the
possibility of strikes, etc.), or the condition of its infrastructure (roads, railways, power
supplies, etc.), or possible changes in the climate, etc.
Business Studies 121


In small groups, try to identify the potential supply chain risks for the following
businesses. How could these risks be minimized?
- A car factory in the UK that gets components from British, continental European
and Asian suppliers
- The fruit and vegetable department of a national supermarket chain
- A tourist industry company that hires seasonal workers for different tasks at
different times of the year
VOCABULARY
service chain origin activities
technology outbound operational
Exercise 1. Complete the passage below with the words from the box below.
Logistics management is that part of supply (1) management that plans,
implements, and controls the effective forward and reverse flow and storage of goods,
services and information between the point of (2) and the point of
consumption. Logistics management activities usually include inbound and
3), transportation management, fleet management, warehousing, materials
handling, order fulfilment, logistics network design, inventory management,
supply/demand planning, etc. The logistics function also includes sourcing and
procurement, production planning and scheduling, packaging and assembly, and
customer (4), - It is involved in all levels of planning and execution — strategic,
(5). and tactical. Logistics management is an integrating function, which coordinates
all logistics (6), , as well as integrating logistics activities with other
functions including marketing, sales manufacturing, finance, and information (7)_
Exercise 2. Match the following terms with their definitions.
1. Logistics a) A network of facilities that performs the function of
procurement of materials, transformation of these materials into
finished products, and the distribution of these products to
customers
2. Supply chain | b) all operations related to the reuse of products and materials
3. Logistics ¢) goods carried by a ship, aircraft, or other vehicle
management
122 Pusiness Studies:


4. Customs d) the management of the flow of goods, information and
clearance other resources, between the point of origin and the point of
consumption
5. Cargo ¢€) someone whose business is to supply a particular service or
commodity
6. Logistician f) that part of supply chain management, which plans,
implements, and controls the flow and storage of goods
between the point of origin and the point of consumption
7. Provider 2) a specialist in logistics
8. Reverse h) the act of passing goods through customs so that they can enter
Logistics or leave the country
EXERCISE 3. Complete the text about logistics using the words in the box.
balancing ensuring linking negotiating
forecasting ~~ handling ~~ selecting ~~ warehousing
Logistics' is a term that is used in many different ways. Using a broad definition it
can include all of the following:
Customer service
(1), the right product is at the right place at the right time.
Demand (2) and planning
Determining the quantity of goods that need to be ordered in the future.
Inventory management and materials (3)
Keeping the supply chain flowing, with no bottlenecks, by (4) the
quantity of items at different locations and different stages in the process.
Communication technology
5) the organization to its suppliers with IT, for example to provide
information about demand patterns to facilitate Just-In-Time delivery.
Transportation
(6) the best means of transportation (ie air, rail, ship, truck).
Purchasing
(7) with suppliers about price, availability, quality, etc.
(3) A—
Pusiness Studies 123


Locating and designing facilities that allow efficient storage and distribution.
All the above activities must be coordinated properly. Inevitably there will be
trade-offs - less of one thing and more of something else - in order to achieve the best
outcome overall.
LISTENING
Listening 1: Listen to three people describing their jobs in logistics: a warehouse
manager, a freight forwarder, and a shipping operations manager. Match each job to
the correct person.
A= 4 4
- A L Zz
] al
ES SE SR | el FS
Listening 2: Now listen again and complete the sentences.
Person 1:
1. My job is to the transport of goods either by sea,
air, road, or rail.
2. An important part of the job is with customer
requests about the most suitable mode of transport.
3. My responsibilities also include good shipping
rates with shipping lines and transport companies.
4.1 customs clearance on behalf of my clients.
Person 2:
5. In my job I have to that the cargo is not
damaged onboard the ship or while loading or unloading.
6. 1 customers on shipping rates and prepare
quotations for our sales office.
124 Pusiness Studies:


Person 3:
7. Another part of my job is to with
departments such as transport and production.
8. Apart from that, I that vehicles, machines, and
any other kind of equipment are maintained to a high level
Listening 3: Three purchasing managers are discussing strategies for negotiating
with a supplier. Listen to the discussion and answer the questions.
1. What kind of relationship do they want with the supplier?
2. What would be the benefits of such a relationship?
3. What market position does the company have?
4. What kind of products do they make?
5. What kind of agreement are they interested in?
Listening 4: Listen to three logistics providers presenting their services.
Complete the table.
Ley
goooooof] EB»
nib = - Day, —
5 | Oh ¥ Gs »
I I TY gery
Provider | GFT Global Caren | [
Ea I
International)
[Providers (Cargorpresyy | [
Pusiness Studies i125


Listening 5: Put the steps in this integrated packing location system in the correct
order (1-8). Then listen and check.
[J You scan the barcode of the shipping label.
[J The system calculates the weight of the package.
[ You enter the system.
[J You choose means of transport.
[J You can put together packages.
[J The shipping labels are printed.
[J You can see and access all positions in the container.
[J The order is complete - system prints delivery note.
4 NE EV Bs
\ Spe
RE
\ - ” J -
ke. "h
- |i
UNIT REVIEW
= What is logistics? What is logistics management?
= What is supply chain?
= What is inbound logistics? What is outbound logistics?
= Differentiate pull and push strategies
126 Pusiness Studies


WRITING
Task 1: Write an essay of at least 250 words about the following topic.
In logistics, pull and push strategies are used to manage inventory and
production. A push strategy involves producing goods based on forecasts and pushing
them to the market, while a pull strategy focuses on producing goods in response to
actual demand.
Discuss the advantages and disadvantages of pull and push strategies in supply
chain management.
Your discussion should include examples of situations where each strategy might
be most effective, as well as the potential risks and benefits associated with each
approach, supported by what you have learned in your Business Studies Course.
Pusiness Studies 127


Task 2: Write an essay of at least 250 words about the following topic.
Logistics management is crucial for ensuring that products are delivered to the
right place, at the right time, and in the right condition. While it can improve
customer satisfaction and reduce costs, poor logistics management can lead to delays,
increased expenses, and dissatisfied customers.
Analyze the key challenges and opportunities in logistics management for modern
businesses.
Your analysis should consider how logistics management impacts supply chain
efficiency, cost control, and customer satisfaction, with examples from real-world
companies or case studies discussed in your Business Studies Course.
128 Pusiness Studies


UNIT 9
QUALITY
LEARNING OBJECTIVES
After you have read and studied this unit, you N° io . 2
should be able to bot
LoL QUALI) fd
= discuss the terms quality and total quality ’ / 5
management 5 2 4 7
= explain how companies ensure quality {o] ;
= explain quality control and quality assurance
KEY TERMS
Quality: to produce a good or a service which meets customer expectations.
Quality control: the checking for quality at the end of the production process, whether it
is the production of a product or service.
Quality assurance: the checking for quality standards throughout the production
process, whether it is the production of a product or service.
Total Quality Management (TQM): the continuous improvement of products and
processes by focusing on quality at each stage of production.
LEAD- IN
Quality can mean a lot of different things. If you were talking about quality in
relation to these products and services, what would you mean?
A car A mobile phone
A laptop computer An insurance company
A raincoat A bookself
Pusiness Studies: 129


fr La = i {
4 = 7 f— <
Y #
Wk A
Soa
“a
Jl
~ L
- I
N PS ~~
iL |
Eo coe
P= oo SE i
READING 1
What is quality?
The word ‘quality’ has an everyday meaning that has to do with features,
reliability, perfornance, durability, aesthetics, value for money and conformance to
requirements.
Quality control and quality assurance
Quality control is about detecting defects after they happen. It involves random
sampling, spot checks, inspection and testing. Quality assurance is about prevention
rather than detection. If a failure happens, then it's isolated, the causes are analyzed, and
130 Pusiness Studies


there is a redesign of the process or of the parts to make sure it doesn't happen again.
The aim is zero defects, to get things right first time.
Quality management
Total quality management (TQM) is a philosophy that was very popular in the
1980s and 90s. It aims to put an awareness of quality at the heart of all organizational
processes (eg customer service) and not just production. It puts an emphasis on a
continual increase in customer satisfaction combined with lowering costs by eliminating
waste. It is similar in many ways to the ideas of these models: SCM, Toyota Production
System, Lean Manufacturing, Kaizen, etc.
The impact of total quality management on business
This approach to quality requires the involvement of all employees in a business.
Total quality management is based on the principle that everyone within a business has
a contribution to make to the overall quality of the finished product or service.
TQM often involves a significant change in the culture of an organisation.
Employees can no longer think that quality is someone else's responsibility. The search
for quality must affect the attitudes and actions of every employee. When adopting this
concept, every worker needs to think about the quality of the work they are performing
as another employee is, in effect, their internal customer. Every department is obliged to
meet the standards expected by its internal customer(s). These departmental
relationships are sometimes known as quality chains. All businesses can, therefore, be
described as a series of supplier and customer relationships. Examples include:
= A truck driver who drops off supplies to retailers is the internal customer of the
team loading the vehicle. Goods must be handled carefully and loaded in the
right order. The truck driver has to face the retailer if goods are damaged or the
wrong ones are delivered.
= A computer assembly team is the internal customer of the teams producing the
individual components. A fault with any component means the assembled
computer will not meet quality standards
The TQM concept has revolutionised the way workers view quality. To be
effective, the concept must be fully explained and training given to all workers. TQM is
not a technique - it is a philosophy that quality is everyone's responsibility. The aim is to
make all workers at all levels accept that the quality of the work they perform is
important. Workers should be empowered with the responsibility of checking this
quality level before passing their work on to the next production stage.
Pusiness Studies 131"


This approach fits in well with the Herzberg principles of job enrichment. In
addition, TQM should almost eliminate the need for a separate quality control
department with inspectors separated from the production line itself. TQM aims to cut
the costs of faulty or defective products by encouraging all workers to 'get it right first
time' and to achieve zero defects. With TQM, if quality is improved and guaranteed,
then reject costs should fall and the demand for the products will rise over time.
TQM will only work effectively if everyone in the business is committed to the
idea. It cannot be introduced into one section of a business if defective products coming
from other sections are not reduced. The philosophy requires a commitment from senior
management to allow the workforce authority and empowerment. TQM will not operate
well in a rigid and authoritarian structure.
Summarises the TQM approach
p SERED
Get it right
first time
Read the text and decide if the following statements are True or False.
1. TQM concerns production and customer service personnel.
2. TQM involves maximizing output and reducing costs.
3. TQM guarantees zero defection production and no waste.
4. TQM will only be successful if everyone in the company is dedicated to the
idea.
5. TQM stops when the company have their perfect product.
132 Pusiness Studies


READING 2
A variety of approaches
Quality is a topic that occurs under the umbrella of many different philosophies.
This is good news for the army of consultants called in to explain and implement the
latest management fad. But certain things are common to all the approaches: measuring
and systematizing processes; reducing variation, defects and cycle times; and employee
involvement and teamwork. The differences between the approaches (and others, like
Six Sigma) are related to which tools, checklists, measurements and training they use.
Quality costs
Quality isn't free - it comes with a cost. But if there are no quality procedures,
then the cost is much higher: continuing problems with the product, a loss of
confidence in the brand and fewer sales as a result. Here are just some of the
ways that companies have to spend money and time to ensure quality:
Engineers have to spend time with marketers during the development of new
products to facilitate design-for manufacture. There have to be supplier
capability surveys to make sure that suppliers can achieve the quality levels
that they claim. There have to be regular meetings, education and training
about quality improvement.
The company has to inspect and test incoming material, material that is being
processed, and the finished product. There is also the cost of buying and
servicing any equipment used for measuring and testing.
There may be scrap, rework, re-inspection, re-testing, etc. If these continue at a
high level, then perhaps there will be a fundamental review of suppliers and
materials.
Time is needed to process customer complaints, to process customer returns,
to deal with warranty claims and to handle product recalls.
Pusiness Studies 133


Read the text and find a word that matches each definition below.
1. How long various activities take to complete (eg one production run).
(2 words)
2. Looking at how easy it is to make a new product, not just the features.
3. Asking questions to find out if your suppliers are able to meet quality standards.
(3 words)
4. Materials or small parts that are no longer useful.
5. The return of products, for example because they're faulty or dangerous.
(2 words)
CASE STUDY 1
High prices, high quality?
The operations manager at Athletic Shoes is proud of the quality standards his
business achieves. ‘Our sports shoes have a retail price of $25. They are not the best or
most stylish on the market.
However, only 4 customers returned shoes because of serious problems over the
last 12 months when we sold 50 000 pairs. All our workers are accountable for the
products reaching minimum standards of quality at each stage of production. There are
better shoes available, but our customers know what they are getting.”
The customer service manager at the Exclusive Footwear shoe shop is returning a
pair of handmade leather fashion shoes to their producers at Ital Fashion Shoe. The
manager explained, ‘The retail price of these is $400 a pair. Customers paying such high
prices expect a perfect product every time. Even the smallest scratch or imperfection
means the customers reject them. Even though Ital checks every shoe at each stage of
production, a few minor blemishes are sometimes missed.”
1. Analyse what a quality product means to each of these businesses.
2. Evaluate ways a business could improve the quality of its products.
CASE STUDY 2
Quality assurance at the hairdressers
The Kuala Lumpur branch of Hairazor had the worst record of all the company’s
branches for customer satisfaction. The number of complaints received at head office
134 Pusiness Studies


about this branch and the quality of its haircutting and styling services was much greater
than for any other location. Revenue fell and the number of repeat customers was just
15% of overall customers. A rival business nearby, with 30% higher prices, was always
full. This branch of Hairazor spent more on advertising for new customers than any
other. The revenue per customer was also low as high addedvalue services (such as
colouring and perming) were avoided by customers.
A new manager was appointed to the branch last year. She immediately set quality
targets for each stage of the customer experience. These include:
® maximum time for the phone to ring
= maximum waiting time for an appointment
® maximum time between a hair wash and when cutting begins
= all customers to be offered refreshments
® minimum time spent by stylists with each customer
= feedback forms completed by 20% of clients, with stylists discussing answers
with clients.
Each employee is given responsibility for at least one of these targets. A record is
now kept of the branch’s success in meeting these targets. At first, branch costs
increased as an additional worker was recruited to help meet the quality standards. After
two months, the number of repeat clients reached 36% and the branch was able to
reduce its advertising expenditure. After four months, revenue had risen by 28%. The
branch has just achieved third place in the company league table for customer
satisfaction. The competing hairdressing business has reduced many of its prices by
1. Analyse the benefits to this service business of improving quality.
2. Evaluate whether the manager was right to introduce these quality targets.
VOCABULARY
Exercise 1. Match up the following words and definitions.
Pusiness Studies: 135


1. benchmarking I. a fault or imperfection or deficiency
J. a promise that goods will meet a certain specified quality
2. defect level, or be repaired or replaced
P
3. durability K. customers’ satisfaction with and loyalty to a company
4. goodwill L. ease of maintenance and repair
a M. going outside the firm to see what excellent competitors are
5. reliability doing, and adopting the best practices
6. to scarp N. performance over a long period of time
7. serviceability O. regular performance according to specification
P. to sell defective goods for the price of the recyclable
8. warranty materials they contain
EXERCISE 2. Complete these sentences using given words.
Leading indicators ~~ Lagging indicators Tolerance ISO 9000
Nonconformance Six sigma Key performance ~~ Benchmarking
indicators (KPI)
1. is measuring your performance against other companies
that are best in class and then using the information to improve.
2. is the amount by which a parameter (eg. size) can vary
from the norm before the piece becomes a defect.
3. is a set of international standards of quality. Companies can
be audited for compliance with one of the standards, and then publicly state that they're
: -certified’
4. is when a requirement has not been met. It does not need to
be a serious defect, it could be a simple mark on the surface that spoils the appearance.
3. is the name of a well-known quality methodology. It takes
a highly disciplined approach to eliminating defects in manufacturing. This term
originally comes from statistics.
6. are statistical measures of how well an organization is
doing in particular areas. The term is particularly common in production and operations,
but is used throughout business.
7. are those that a future outcome. For example, predict levels
of staff satisfaction are often a leading indicator of quality. A more motivated workforce
will make fewer mistakes.
136 Pusiness: Studies


8. are those that show a result. For example, warranty claims
are a lagging indicator of quality. Fewer claims mean that earlier actions to improve
quality are now working. (A ‘lag’ is a delay between two events).
EXERCISE 3. Complete the text using these words.
relationships aspects costly resented
expenses guarantee variations permanent
quality individualistic ~~ defects stress
In production and operations management, over the past few decades, there has
been increasing (1) on quality, as defined by the consumer, in terms of
features offered, appearance, reliability, durability, serviceability, and so on.
An important concept has been Total Quality Management (TQM), according to
which management should ensure that quality extends throughout the organization in
everything it does, or at least in all (2) of products and services that are
important to the customer. Rather than aiming for the best quality compatible with low
unit costs, the company should aim for the highest quality level possible, because a lack
of quality can be more (3) than achieving high quality. As the production
theorist Philip Crosby puts it, quality is free.
What he means is that there are many (4) that result from
production that is not 100% perfect: inspecting, testing, identifying the causes of
defects, implementing corrective action, training or retraining personnel, redesigning a
product or system, scrapping, reworking or repairing defective products, replacing
products in accordance with a (5) , dealing with complaints, losing
customers or their goodwill, and so on. Quality theorists such as Joseph Juran, W. E.
Deming, and Crosby have shown that prevention is usually much cheaper than failures.
Every extra dollar spent on prevention might save $10 spent on inspection and failure
costs. Furthermore, even if the current (6) level appears perfect, the
company should still continuously look for product improvement, and aim to be the best
in the industry. Companies should always engage in benchmarking.
Although management is responsible for designing and installing an overall
system which excludes (7) and low quality, everyone within that system,
in the entire supplier-producer customer chain, should be responsible for quality. In
TQM, every worker is a quality inspector for his or her own work, trying to get it right
the first time, aiming for zero defects. This approach, often described as "quality at the
source," removes the need for the kind of "over the shoulder" inspection that is usually
Business Studies: 137


8) by workers. Of course, this often requires training and depends on a
co-operative attitude.
Many large Japanese companies - especially those guaranteeing (9)
employment - have been able to attain high quality, because of the
motivation of their staff, and the long-term nature of nearly all the (10)
among employees, suppliers, distributors, owners and customers. The Japanese invented
quality circles: voluntary groups of six to twelve people, who are usually given training
in problem-solving, analysis, and reporting methods, and who then meet once a week,
during paid hours, to discuss their department and the problems they are encountering.
If there are problems with quality (11) , the group will try to identify
their sources, find solutions to eliminate them, and propose these to management. There
are an estimated one million quality circles with ten million members in Japan. Quality
circles have been less successful in the more (12) individualistic cultures
of America and Europe.
LISTENING
Listening 1: Mike Ashton is Senior Vice President of Hilton Hotels International.
The hotel employs 75,000 people in 65 countries. Listen to the first part of the interview.
Complete the definition of quality.
I believe the best way to define quality is to look very closely at customers’
werervssnennenn. and then to look at the ...... of a business to or ................. those expectations,
consistently.
Listening 2: Listen to the second part of the interview. Which of the following
does the hotel use to measure quality improvements?
a) contacting guests b) inspecting rooms daily
¢) contacting team members d) studying operational standards
¢€) comparing check out times f) making unexpected visits
Listening 3: Listen to the third part of the interview. According to Mike Ashton,
why is investment in quality important?
Listening 4: Listen to a customer making a complaint. Answer these questions.
1. What is the customer's complaint?
2. What solution does the customer service representative suggest?
3. What solution does the customer want?
138 Pusiness Studies


4. How does the call end?
Listening 5: Listen to the passenger complaints recorded by the customer
services department. Match the complaints with some of the categories in the survey.
Statistics
Total number of passengers using the
terminal (per year)
five years ago three years ago [rast year
1.8 million 2.6 million 4.8 million
Results of a passenger survey u J | Customer Raion me
The results of a recent passenger survey have [FnanceiDiecor
revealed several arcas of complaint. Subject: [Foro wnang
Passengers completed a questionnaire, L a
ranking various services and facilitics. The figures Thank you for your e-mail asking what funds will be
refer to the percentage of passengers answering avallable to improve our services and facilities during
the questionnaire. the coming year.
| Because of rising costs, the funds available for
improvements are limited, The Managing Director feels
strongly that you should look for soltions that do not
cost a lot of money. You should focus more on
100) improving ©'" thaninvesting in expensive
90 equipment.
so
wo
30 | B
20 fh | ] i |
10 a | | | |
A A = ] | | || |
Transport Car park. Check-in VIPlounge Security Signs. Boarding Baggage Terminal Public
links & passport. Including Disembarking facilities announcements
control screens
Hl Good IT Satisfactory Poor
UNIT REVIEW
1. What does the word ‘quality’ mean to you? Brainstorm as many ideas as possible.
2. Differentiate quality control and quality assurance
3. What is TQM?
4. How does TQM affect business?
5. How do companies spend time and money to ensure quality?
Pusiness Studies 139


WRITING
Task 1: Write an essay of at least 250 words about the following topic.
Quality control and quality assurance are two critical aspects of maintaining
product and service standards within an organization.
Distinguish between quality control and quality assurance, explaining the role of
each in ensuring product or service quality. Discuss the methods and tools used in
quality control and quality assurance processes.
Your discussion should include the strengths and limitations of both approaches,
supported by examples from what you have learned in your Business Studies Course.
140 Pusiness Studies


Task 2: Write an essay of at least 250 words about the following topic.
Total Quality Management (TQM) is a comprehensive approach to quality that
involves continuous improvement and customer focus.
Explain the key principles of TQM and discuss how it can be implemented
effectively within an organization.
Analyze the benefits of adopting a TQM approach, supported by what you have
learnt in your Business Studies Course.
Pusiness Studies 141


UNIT 10
MARKETING
LEARNING OBJECTIVES — . en
After you have read and studied this bo [pr
unit, you should be able to TY
Prense Plense! Fall
= discuss the term marketing p) y
= consider the product life cycle and Re - 1
market research CRT AE AL ny H |
" . . o> =: 3 =
= discuss marketing strategies, E aq 2 Rl
market segments 3 >
KEY TERMS
= market: the set of all actual and potential buyers of a good or service; the place where
people buy and sell; the people who trade in a particular good; to make goods
available to buyers and to encourage them to buy them
= market leader: the company with the largest market share
= market nicher: a small company that concentrates on one or more particular niches or
small market segments
= market research (GB) or marketing research (US): the collection; analysis and
reporting of data relevant to a specific marketing situation (e.g. a proposed new product)
= market segment: part of a market; a group of customers with specific needs, defined in
terms of geography, age, sex, income, occupation, life-style, etc.
= market segmentation: the act of dividing a market into distinct groups of buyers who
l have different requirements or buying habits
= market share: the sales of a company (or brand or product) expressed as a
percentage of total sales in marketing - the process of identifying and satisfying
consumers’ needs and desires
= marketing channel: the set of intermediaries a company uses to get its goods to their
end users
142 Pusiness Studies


= markefing mix: the set of all the various elements in a markefing programme, and the
way a company integrates them
= marketing strategy: a plan or principle designed to achieve marketing objectives
= product life cycle: the standard pattern of sales of a product over the period that it is
marketed
LEAD- IN
Here are four definitions of marketing. Which do you prefer, and why?
= Selling means you sell what you make; marketing means you make what you
can sell.
= Marketing means the right product, in the right place, at the right price, and at
the right time.
= Marketing means identifying customers, defining and developing the products
or services they want, and making and distributing them.
= Marketing means anticipating and creating needs: producing useful things
customers didn't know they wanted until you produced them.
READING 1
What is Marketing?
What does the term marketing really mean? Many people mistakenly think of it as
advertising and selling. Given the number of commercials on television, in magazines
and newspapers and all the signs and offers in and around the shops this is not
surprising. However, advertising and selling are only two of several marketing
functions, and not necessarily the most important ones.
The most basic concept underlying marketing is that of human needs. We have
many needs including ones such as affection, knowledge and a sense of belonging as
well as the physical need for food, warmth and shelter. A good deal of our lives is
devoted to obtaining what will satisfy those needs. Marketing can thus be defined as any
human activity which is directed at satisfying needs and wants by creating and
exchanging goods and value with others.
Marketing has become a key factor in the success of western businesses. Today's
companies face stiff competition and the companies which can best satisfy customer
needs are those which will survive and make the largest profits.
Pusiness Studies: 143


Marketing begins with 'the four Ps": product, place, promotion and price. These
combine to form the marketing mix for any one product or service. Elements of 'the four
Ps' are shown in the table below:
eo features and associated benefits eo retailer
e branding (ie product identity) e wholesaler
o packaging (eg there may be a bag * B2B distributor
inside a box) o agent
o label (eg printed on the package)
Poin we
e advertising o external factors (eg elasticity of
sales promotions (eg special offers, demand, customer expectations,
discounts) competitor’s products)
o public relations e internal factors (eg profit required,
market share required)
The Product Life Cycles
Product Life Cycle
” Introduction Growth | Maturity Decline
I Revenue
F
c
@o
Profit
Time
The sales of most products change over time, in a recognizable pattern which
contains distinct periods or stages. The standard life cycle includes introduction, growth,
maturity and decline stages.
The introduction stage, following a product's launch, generally involves slow
growth. Only a few innovative people will buy it. There are probably no profits at this
144 Pusiness Studies


stage because of the heavy advertising, distribution and sales promotions expenses
involved in introducing a product onto the market. Consumers must be made aware of
the product's existence and persuaded to buy it. Some producers will apply a market-
skimming strategy, setting a high price in order to recover development costs. Others
will employ a market-penetration strategy, selling the product at as low price as
possible, in order to attain a large market share. There is always a trade-off between
high current profit and high market share.
During the growth period, early adopters’ join the ‘innovators’ who were
responsible for the first sales, so that sales rise quickly, producing profits. This generally
enables the producer to benefit from economies of scale. Competitors will probably
enter the market, usually making it necessary to reduce prices, but the competition will
increase the market's awareness and speed up the adoption process.
‘When the majority of potential buyers have tried or accepted a product, the market
is saturated, and the product reaches its maturity stage. Sales will stabilize at the
replacement purchase rate, or will only increase if the population increases. The
marketing manager has to turn consumers' brand preference into brand loyalty.
Most products available at any given time are in the maturity stage of the life
cycle. This stage may last many years, and contain many ups and downs due to the use
of a succession of marketing strategies and tactics. Product managers can attempt to
convert non-users, search for new markets and market segments to enter, or try to
stimulate increased usage by existing users. Alternatively, they can attempt to improve
product quality and to add new features, sizes or models, or simply to introduce periodic
stylistic modifications. They can also modify the other elements of the marketing mix,
and cut prices, increase advertising, undertake aggressive sales promotions, seek new
distribution channels, and so on, although here additional sales generally come at the
cost of reduced profits.
A product enters the decline period when it begins to be replaced by new ones,
due to advances in technology, or to changes in fashions and tastes. When a product has
clearly entered its decline stage, some manufacturers will abandon it in order to invest
their resources in more profitable or innovative products. When some competitors
choose to withdraw from a market, those who remain will obviously gain a temporary
increase in sales as customers switch to their product.
Not all products have this typical life cycle. Some have an immediate rapid
growth rather than a slow introductory stage. Others never achieve the desired sales, and
go straight from introduction to maturity, although of course this should have been
Pusiness Studies 145


discovered during test marketing before a full-scale launch. Fads and gimmicks - for
example, toys people buy once and once only to stick on car windows - have distinct
life cycles, both rising and declining very quickly.
Read the text and decide if the following statements are True or False.
1. Advertising is a part of marketing.
2. Selling is the most important function of marketing.
3. A sense of belonging is a physical need.
4. Satisfying customer needs is a key to success.
5. The introduction stage of a new product is not usually profitable.
6. During the introduction stage, marketers are trying to create brand preference.
7. A producer seeking maximum profits will apply a market-penetration strategy.
8. The entry of competitors onto the market will make more consumers aware of
the product and stimulate them to try it.
9. At the maturity stage, producers begin to benefit from economies of scale.
10. The maturity stage is generally the longest.
11. Once the maturity stage is reached, marketers concentrate on finding new
customers.
12. A product enters the decline stage when it begins to become obsolete.
13. A product can experience temporary sales increases during its decline stage.
14. Gimmicks and fads have a particularly long-life cycle.
READING 2
A company's marketing strategies - sets of principles design to achieve long-term
objectives obviously depend on its size and position in the market. Other determining
factors are the extent of the company's resources, the strategies of its competitors, the
behaviour of the consumers in the target market, the stage in the product life-cycle of
the products it markets, and the overall macro-economic environment.
The aim of a market leader is obviously to remain the leader. The best way to
achieve this is to increase market share even further. If this is not possible, the leader
will at least attempt to protect its current market share. A good idea is to try to find
ways to increase the total market. This will benefit everyone in the field, but the market
146 Pusiness Studies


leader more than its competitors. A market can be increased by finding new users for a
product, by stimulating more usage of a product, or by exploiting new uses, which can
sometimes be uncovered by carrying out market research with existing customers.
To protect a market share, a company can innovate in products, customer services,
distribution channels, cost reductions, and so on; it can extend and stretch its product
lines to leave less room for competitors; and it can confront competitors directly in
expensive sales promotion campaigns.
Market challengers can either attempt to attack the leader, or to increase their
market share by attacking various market followers. If they choose to attack the leader,
market challengers can use most of the strategies also available to market leaders:
product innovation, price reductions, cheaper or higher quality versions, improved
services, distribution channel innovations, manufacturing cost reduction, intensive
advertising, and so on.
Market followers are in a difficult position. They are usually the favourite target
of market challengers. They can reduce prices, improve products or services, and so on,
but the market leader and challenger will usually be able to retaliate successfully. A
market follower that takes on a larger company in a price war is certain to lose, given its
lesser resources.
In many markets, market followers fall in the middle of a V-shaped curve relating
market share and profitability. Small companies focusing on specialised narrow
segments can make big profits. So can the market leader, with a high market share and
economies of scale. In between come the less profitable market followers, which are too
big to focus on niches, but too small to benefit from economies of scale.
One possibility for followers is to imitate the leaders' products. The innovator has
borne the cost of developing the new product, distributing it, and making the market
aware of its existence. The follower can clone this product (copy it completely),
depending on patents and so on, or improve, adapt or differentiate it. Whatever happens,
followers have to keep their manufacturing costs low and the quality of their products
and services high.
Small companies that do not establish their own niche - a segment of a segment -
are in a vulnerable position. If their product does not have a "unique selling
proposition," there is no reason for anyone to buy it. Consequently, a good strategy is to
concentrate on a niche that is large enough to be profitable and that is likely to grow,
that doesn't seem to interest the leader, and which the firm can serve effectively. The
niche could be a specialised product, a particular group of end-users, geographical
region, the top end of a market, and so on. Of course unless a nicher builds up immense
customer goodwill, it is vulnerable to an attack by the market leader or another larger
Pusiness Studies 147


company. Consequently, multiple niching - developing a position in two or more niches
- is a much safer strategy.
Read the text and decide if the following statements are True or False.
1. If a market leader succeeds in increasing the size of the total market, its
competitors” benefit.
2. The size of a market can be increased without attracting any new consumers.
3. Market challengers generally attack the leader and market followers.
4. Market challengers cannot use the same strategies as leaders.
5. Market leaders generally win price wars.
6. Market challengers can attack leaders by way of any of the four P's of the
marketing mix.
7. Market followers generally achieve cost reductions through economies of scale.
8. The most profitable companies are logically those with medium or high market
share.
9. For a market nicher, product imitation can be as profitable as product
innovation.
10. A market nicher is never safe from an attack by a larger company.
CASE STUDY 1
The personal computer market has seen many changes over the last few years.
The standard desktop computer is becoming a thing of the past in many offices, where a
laptop has taken its place. In the home this has also been true. However, the introduction
of the netbook and then the Apple iPad has changed the market again.
Predictions for the future of the personal computer market are that mobile devices
will become market leaders in terms of global sales, followed by tablets and netbooks.
Home computers are seen as becoming a smaller and smaller share of the global market.
Discussion points
» How has the market for personal computers changed?
* Why have these changes happened?
+ How should businesses in the personal computer market respond to these
changes?
148 Pusiness Studies


CASE STUDY 2
Toyota produce a range of cars aimed at different market segments. They even
own a separate company, called Lexus, whose cars are aimed at particular market segment.
/ 4 v fe.
ey a ——
LB == eo
FR PE eer) =
LHR A :
) * am
Toyota Yaris Hatchback Toyota Land Cruiser VX 4.6
J a a Ev
a) CC IN eee LL —
£5 4 g Fad pa
i BN > bd BT a .
4 — Ls = p
: Vi—— = ad ga
Ra. MER Y= -
Lexus RX350 Toyota Camry RZ
- Look at the photographs of the Toyota range of cars and identify what
characteristics the consumers of these models are likely to have. The characteristics you
identify might include income (socio-economic group), age, gender, use of the product,
lifestyle.
- Explain the benefits to Toyota of producing a large range of cars aimed at
different market segments.
VOCABULARY
Exercise 1. Match up words in the box to the definitions.
distribution channel market segmentation sales representative
market opportunities product features price elasticity
market skimming market penetration ~~ wholesaler
product differentiation
Pusiness Studies 149


1. all the companies or individuals (‘middlemen’) involved in moving goods or
services from producers to consumers
2. an intermediary that stocks manufacturers' goods or merchandise, and sells it to
retailers and professional buvers
3. dividing a market into distinct groups of buyers who have different
requirements or buying habits
4. making a product (appear to be) different from similar products offered by
other sellers, by product differences, advertising, packaging, etc.
5. possibilities of filling unsatisfied needs in sectors in which a company can
profitably produce goods or services
6. setting a high price for a new product, to make maximum revenue before
competing products appear on the market
7. someone who contacts existing and potential customers, and tries to persuade
them to buy goods or services
8. the attributes or characteristics of a product, such as size, shape, quality, price,
reliability, etc.
9. the extent to which supply or demand (the quantity produced or bought) of a
product responds to changes of price
10. the strategy of setting a low price to try to sell a large volume and increase
market share
EXERCISE 2. Complete the text with the words in the box.
advertising budgets similar offerings making a loss
early adopters consumer tastes reaches saturation
differentiate products withdrawn from the market
The classic product life cycle is Introduction, Growth, Maturity and Decline. In
the Introduction stage the product is promoted to create awareness. It has low sales and
will still be (1) . If the product has few competitors, a skimming price
strategy can be used (a high price for (2) which is then gradually
lowered). In the Growth phase sales are rising rapidly and profits are high.
However, competitors are attracted to the market with 3) ~~. The
market is characterized by alliances, joint ventures and takeovers. (4) _
are large and focus on building the brand.
150 Pusiness Studies


In the Maturity phase sales growth slows and then stabilizes. Producers attempt to
(5) and brands are key to this. Price wars and competition occur as the
market (6) . In the Decline phase there is a downturn in the market. The
product is starting to look old- fashioned or (7) have changed. There is
intense price-cutting and many products are (8) R
EXERCISE 3. Make phrases and then complete the text below.
1. carrying out sample of people
2. gaps in the a survey
3. consumer of competitors
4. published needs
5. a representative market
6. statistically sources
7. the activity reliable
Market research is the process by which a company collects information about
(1), and preferences. The information helps to identify market trends and
spot (2) 3
The easiest data to collect is that from existing (3) such as
government reports Other valuable information can be obtained by studying consumer
behaviour in more developed markets, on looking at (4)
(benchmarking).
Primary data, collected for the first time, is more difficult to obtain. First, (5)
has to be carefully chosen - it has to be large enough to be (6)
and also checked for factors such as age, sex, occupation. Common
research methods include (7) using a questionnaire, or face-to-face
interviews with existing customers.
EXERCISE 4. Complete the text using the correct form of these verbs:
anticipate modify divide offer fill
share influence sell involve understand
A market can be defined as all the potential customers (1) a
particular need or want. Marketing is the process of developing, pricing, distributing
Pusiness Studies 151


and promoting the goods or services that satisfy such needs. Marketing therefore
combines market research, new product development, distribution, advertising,
promotion, product improvement, and so on. According to this definition, marketing
begins and ends with the customer. Truly successful mataeting (2) the
customer so well that the product or service satisfies a need so perfectly that the
customer is desperate to buy it. The product almost (3) itself. Of course
this will only happen if the product or service is better than those of competitors.
Companies are always looking for marketing opportunities - possibilities of (4)
unsatisfied needs in areas in which they are likely to enjoy a
differential advantage, due to their particular competencies. Marketing opportunities are
generally isolated by market segmentation -(5) a market into
submarkets or segments according to customers’ requirements or buying habits. Once a
target market has been identified, a company has to decide what goods or services to (6)
, always remembering the existence of competitors.
Marketers do not only identify consumer needs; they can (7)
them by developing new products. They will then have to design marketing strategies
and plan marketing programmes, and then organize, implement, and control the
marketing effort. Once the basic offer, for example a product concept, has been
established, the company has to think about the marketing mix - the set of all the
various elements of a marketing programme, their integration, and the amount of effort
that a company can expend on them in order to (8) the target market.
The best-known classification of these elements is the 4P's: Product, Price, Promotion
and Place.
Aspects to be considered in marketing a product include its quality, its features,
style, brand name, size, packaging, services and guarantee, while price includes
consideration of things like the basic list price, discounts, the length of the payment
period, and possible credit terms. Place in a markering mix includes such factors as
distribution channels, coverage of the market, locations of points of sale, inventory size,
and so on. Promotion groups together advertising, publicity, sales promotion, and
personal selling
The next stage is to create long-term demand, perhaps by (9)
particular features of the product to satisfy changes in consumer needs or market
conditions.
Marketing can also involve the attempt to influence or change consumers’ needs
and wants. Companies try to do chis in order to sell their products; governments and
152 Pusiness Studies


health authorities sometimes try to change people's habits for their own good or for the
general good. In other words, markering also (10) regulating the level,
timing and character of demand.
LISTENING
Listening 1: The marketing team at Euphony, a telecoms company, wants to
research the market for mobile phones made specifically for children. Listen to the
following discussion between three members of the team and make a note of the six data
collection methods they mention.
Listening 2: Martin is the marketing manager of a telecommunications company.
He is telling his colleagues about the marketing mix for a new product. Listen and take
notes on the four Ps.
e Product have everything you need to connect to the Internet,
+e Price
e Placement
* Promotion
Pusiness Studies 153


In the Maturity phase sales growth slows and then stabilizes. Producers attempt to
(5) and brands are key to this. Price wars and competition occur as the
market (6) . In the Decline phase there is a downturn in the market. The
product is starting to look old- fashioned or (7) have changed. There is
intense price-cutting and many products are (8) R
EXERCISE 3. Make phrases and then complete the text below.
1. carrying out sample of people
2. gaps in the a survey
3. consumer of competitors
4. published needs
5. a representative market
6. statistically sources
7. the activity reliable
Market research is the process by which a company collects information about
(1), and preferences. The information helps to identify market trends and
spot (2) 3
The easiest data to collect is that from existing (3) such as
government reports Other valuable information can be obtained by studying consumer
behaviour in more developed markets, on looking at (4)
(benchmarking).
Primary data, collected for the first time, is more difficult to obtain. First, (5)
has to be carefully chosen - it has to be large enough to be (6)
and also checked for factors such as age, sex, occupation. Common
research methods include (7) using a questionnaire, or face-to-face
interviews with existing customers.
EXERCISE 4. Complete the text using the correct form of these verbs:
anticipate modify divide offer fill
share influence sell involve understand
A market can be defined as all the potential customers (1) a
particular need or want. Marketing is the process of developing, pricing, distributing
Pusiness Studies 151


and promoting the goods or services that satisfy such needs. Marketing therefore
combines market research, new product development, distribution, advertising,
promotion, product improvement, and so on. According to this definition, marketing
begins and ends with the customer. Truly successful mataeting (2) the
customer so well that the product or service satisfies a need so perfectly that the
customer is desperate to buy it. The product almost (3) itself. Of course
this will only happen if the product or service is better than those of competitors.
Companies are always looking for marketing opportunities - possibilities of (4)
unsatisfied needs in areas in which they are likely to enjoy a
differential advantage, due to their particular competencies. Marketing opportunities are
generally isolated by market segmentation -(5) a market into
submarkets or segments according to customers’ requirements or buying habits. Once a
target market has been identified, a company has to decide what goods or services to (6)
, always remembering the existence of competitors.
Marketers do not only identify consumer needs; they can (7)
them by developing new products. They will then have to design marketing strategies
and plan marketing programmes, and then organize, implement, and control the
marketing effort. Once the basic offer, for example a product concept, has been
established, the company has to think about the marketing mix - the set of all the
various elements of a marketing programme, their integration, and the amount of effort
that a company can expend on them in order to (8) the target market.
The best-known classification of these elements is the 4P's: Product, Price, Promotion
and Place.
Aspects to be considered in marketing a product include its quality, its features,
style, brand name, size, packaging, services and guarantee, while price includes
consideration of things like the basic list price, discounts, the length of the payment
period, and possible credit terms. Place in a markering mix includes such factors as
distribution channels, coverage of the market, locations of points of sale, inventory size,
and so on. Promotion groups together advertising, publicity, sales promotion, and
personal selling
The next stage is to create long-term demand, perhaps by (9)
particular features of the product to satisfy changes in consumer needs or market
conditions.
Marketing can also involve the attempt to influence or change consumers’ needs
and wants. Companies try to do chis in order to sell their products; governments and
152 Pusiness Studies


health authorities sometimes try to change people's habits for their own good or for the
general good. In other words, markering also (10) regulating the level,
timing and character of demand.
LISTENING
Listening 1: The marketing team at Euphony, a telecoms company, wants to
research the market for mobile phones made specifically for children. Listen to the
following discussion between three members of the team and make a note of the six data
collection methods they mention.
Listening 2: Martin is the marketing manager of a telecommunications company.
He is telling his colleagues about the marketing mix for a new product. Listen and take
notes on the four Ps.
e Product have everything you need to connect to the Internet,
+e Price
e Placement
* Promotion
Pusiness Studies 153


Listening 3: Martin is giving a presentation to management about the positioning
strategy he has developed with his team. Listen and answer the questions below.
1. What is the company's [© Spey ;
target market? Bd = a
2. Why is their product = EP ea 1
superior to other packages? a Gad 09
[a NY -
3. How can they prove that J £ = =S! —
their product is the best? \ 2 0S - L
\ s > 4
J \ ; a +
Listening 4: Stefanie from the
manufacturer Herschfeld calls her contact at
3 buyme.com, to complain about low sales.
Listen to their conversation and decide
& a i whether the statements below are true or
: Ea | false. Correct the false statements.
ll
[ Rc Yq | 1. Sales of Herschfeld's goods on
4 buyme.com have been lower than expected.
- 2. Herschfeld did not offer buyme.com a
trade discount.
3. Herschfeld's real-world retailers are upset because buyme.com offers lower
prices than they do.
4. Stefanie wants buyme.com to include two images of all the Herschfeld products
they sell.
5. She also wants them to remove the prices from Herschfeld's products online.
6. The changes will be on the site later today.
Listening 5: Deborah Waters, a partner at Total Telemarketing, is giving a
presentation on her company. Listen and match her comments with the sections of the
web page below.
Comment a Comment b
Comment ¢ Comment d
154 Pusiness Studies


UNIT REVIEW
1. What is marketing?
2. Differentiate market segment and market segmentation.
3. Differentiate market leader & market challenger; market follower & market
challenger; market niche & market follower.
4. What are four stages of a product life cycle?
5. Discuss marketing strategies.
WRITING
Task 1: Write an essay of at least 250 words about the following topic.
The marketing mix, often referred to as the 4Ps (Product, Price, Place,
Promotion), provides a framework for developing marketing strategies.
Explain each element of the marketing mix and discuss how they are
interconnected. Provide examples of how companies use the marketing mix to achieve
their marketing objectives, supported by what you have learnt in your Business Studies
Course.
Pusiness Studies 155


Task 2: Write an essay of at least 250 words about the following topic.
Marketing strategies are essential for businesses to effectively reach and engage
their target audiences. Strategies such as market segmentation, differentiation, and
positioning help companies tailor their offerings to meet consumer needs.
Discuss the role of market segmentation, differentiation, and positioning in
developing effective marketing strategies.
Your discussion should include how each strategy contributes to achieving a
competitive advantage and addressing market demands, supported by examples from
what you have learned in your Business Studies Course.
156 Pusiness Studies


UNIT 11
ADVERTISING
LEARNING OBJECTIVES Ld = (& Bed
2 J;
After you have read and studied this unit, AN
you should be able to od AL =o
= Analyze the different kinds of sales 2 we Cw
promotions ° Lg
ia e
= Discuss what makes a successful advertising campaign
KEY TERMS
= Advertorial: A paid-for advertisement which includes editorial content; normally
identified in a print magazine with the word "Advertisement" printed as a head
across the top of the page to distinguish it from genuine (in theory unbiased)
editorial content
= Advertising agency: The organization that takes care of advertising for clients.
= Advertising campaign: A time-limited set of ads - campaigns may run across
different media, and for one month or ten years, but can be categorized together
as they are the execution of a central idea
= Demographics: Describing an audience by age, gender, ethnicity, or location —
i.e the facts about them
= Focus Groups: Small, select groups representing a target audience who are paid
to answer questions at the behest of a market research organization
= Product Placement: The practice of paying for a branded product to be used by
a character in a movie ~ e.g James Bond driving a BMW Z3
. Product Positioning: Establishing the market niche of a product - which may not
be as the brand leader - and advertising fo the appropriate segment of the audience
USP: Unique Selling Proposition/Point - a highlighted benefit of a product which makes it
stand out from all rival brands.
Pusiness Studies 157


LEAD- IN
= To what extent do you think your purchases are influenced by advertising?
= How many advertising messages do you think you see or hear on an average
day?
= How many times do you think you have to see an ad or a brand name before you
remember it?
= When has advertising ever persuaded you to buy things you don't need or even
things you don't want?
Reading 1: Read the text below and on the next page and decide which
paragraphs should be given the following headings:
A. Advertising spending and sales
B. How companies advertise
C. Word-of-mouth advertising and viral marketing
D. Potential drawbacks of advertising
Advertising and viral marketing
Advertising informs consumers about the existence and benefits of
products and services and attempts to persuade them to buy them. Most companies use
advertising agencies to produce their advertising for them. They give the agency a
statement of the objectives of the advertising campaign, known as a brief, an overall
advertising strategy concerning the message to be communicated to the target
customers, and a budget. The agency creates advertisements (often abbreviated to
adverts or ads) and develops a media plan specifying which media - newspapers,
magazines, the Internet, radio, television, cinema, posters, mail, etc. - will be used and
in which proportions.
It is always difficult to know how much to spend on advertising.
Increased ad spending can increase sales, but many companies just spend a fixed
percentage of current sales revenue, or simply spend as much as their competitors (the
comparative-parity method). On the other hand, lots of creative and expensive
advertising campaigns, including television commercials that lots of people see and
remember, and which win prizes awarded by the advertising industry for the best ads,
don't lead to increased sales.
158 Pusiness Studies


Advertising is widely considered to be essential for launching new
consumer products. Combined with sales promotions such as free samples, price
reductions and competitions, advertising may generate the initial trial of a new product.
But traditional advertising is expensive, it doesn't always reach the target customers,
and it isn't always welcome if it does reach them. People might choose to look at posters
in the street or on public transport (and virtual ones in computer and video games) or
look at the ads in newspapers and magazines, but many other ads interrupt them when
they're trying to do something else, like read a web page, listen to the radio, or watch a
TV programme or a film.
This is why the best form of advertising has always been word-of-
mouth advertising: people telling their friends about good products and services. For
example, at the end of the last century, more and more people were saying to their
friends Have you used Google? It's great. Today, word-of-mouth has developed into
viral marketing: companies succeed in getting people to spread commercial messages,
like a virus, via peer-to-peer (P2P) networks on the Internet. The classic example is
Hotmail, which added a little advertisement for itself at the bottom of every email sent
using a Hotmail address. In the mid-1990s, the number of users increased from 500,000
to 12 million within a year. More and more companies are trying new strategies like
setting up blogs or online forums, commenting on other people's blogs and social
networking websites, making podcasts, and putting videos on YouTube, and hoping that
people will use the 'Share' function to send a link to all their contacts. Viral marketing
allows companies to inform and persuade, and create a buzz, so that an idea spreads
very quickly, at very little cost.
Comprehension: Read the text again and answer these questions.
1. What are the two functions of advertising?
2. What is the role of advertising agencies?
3. What three different methods of determining advertising spending are
mentioned?
4. What does the text describe as the disadvantages of traditional advertising?
5. What ways of using the Internet to advertise are mentioned?
Vocabulary: Find the words in the text that mean the following:
1. companies that design advertising for clients
Husiness Studies 159


2. the advertising of a particular product or service during a particular period of
time
3. the statement of objectives that a client works out with an advertising agency
4. a defined set of customers whose needs a company plans to satisfy
5. the amount of money a company plans to spend in developing its advertising
and buying media time or space
6. the choice of where to advertise in order to reach the right people
7. choosing to spend the same amount on advertising as one's competitors
8. a small amount of a product given to customers to encourage them to try it
9. free advertising, when satisfied customers recommend products to their friends
10. trying to get consumers to forward an online marketing message to other
people
READING 2:
A. Read the article and choose the best headline.
a) Honda predicts record sales as advert breaks new ground
b) Honda skydivers push limits of TV adverts
c¢) Viewers tune out of normal TV advertising; Honda responds
A new kind of campaign
In a new definition of a publicity stunt. Channel 4 and Honda have turned to a
team of skydivers to tackle the problem of viewers tuning out of traditional television
advertising.
On Thursday night, the broadcaster was due to devote an entire 3 minute 20-
second break in the middle of Come Dine With Me, its dinner party programme, to a
live skydiving jump in which 19 stuntmen spelt out the carmaker's brand name.
Described as the first live advertisement in modern times, the campaign is the latest
attempt by advertisers and broadcasters to find alternatives to the 30-second spot.
The development of digital video recorders such as Sky+ and Tivo, which allows
ads to be skipped, has forced advertising agencies and channels' sales teams to
collaborate on more innovative attempts to keep the viewer's attention.
160 Pusiness: Studies


“We wanted to create something unmissable,” said Andy Barnes, the broadcaster's
Sales Director. "This concept breaks the boundaries of TV advertising,” he added,
highlighting a Channel 4 campaign called ‘innovating the break’.
The campaign follows initiatives such as LG's 'Scarlet' campaign, in which the
television manufacturer ran advertisements appearing to trail a glamorous new
television show. which turned out to be a promotion for the design features of its “hot
new series” of screens.
Thursday night's live advertisement, while designed to demonstrate the power of
television advertising, was backed up by a complex multimedia and public-relations
campaign.
The campaign's developers- including Channel 4's in-house creative team, Wieden
+ Kennedy, Starcom, Collective and Hicklin Slade & Partners spent more than a month
pushing the Honda slogan of “difficult is worth doing” before Thursday night's slot.
A poster campaign, a series of television “teaser” advertisements and a website
have been backed up by digital advertising and press coverage. All are building up to a
traditional 30-second advertising campaign, starting on June I, said Ian Armstrong,
Marketing Manager of Honda UK.
“The 30-second ad is alive and well,” Mr Barnes said. pointing to data released
this week which showed that commercial television had enjoyed its best April in five
years.
For Honda, however, the elements surrounding the core 30-second campaign are
designed to generate the intangible buzz of word-of-mouth advertising, Mr Barnes
added.
Thursday night’s skydive would almost certainly go on YouTube, Mr Amstrong
predicted. “Commercially, that's a fantastic result, as it means our marketing investment
becomes more efficient because consumers are doing our marketing for us.”
B. Read the article again and answer the questions.
1. Why did Honda need a new publicity stunt with skydivers?
2. Why was the Honda advert unique?
3. Why are Sky+ and Tivo a problem for advertisers?
4. What happened in the Honda advert?
5. What happened in LG's 'Scarlet' campaign?
Pusiness Studies 161


6. What did the Honda campaign's developers do?
7. What different types of advertising did Honda use?
CASE STUDY 1: Focus Advertising
Background
Focus, a large advertising agency based in Paris, has a reputation for creating
imaginative and effective campaigns. At present, Focus is competing for several
contracts. It has been asked to present ideas for advertising campaigns to the
management of the companies concerned. Concepts are required for the following
advertising campaigns.
A chain of eight restaurants in your country
= The restaurants are in prime locations.
= Low-fat and vegetarian dishes served in a clean, simply furnished, non-
smoking environment.
= Reasonably priced, but not attracting enough customers.
= Target consumer: health-conscious people of all ages.
= Aim: A creative campaign to improve sales.
A perfume
= An upmarket perfume.
= Produced by a well-known fashion house.
= Will be endorsed by a famous personality.
= Target consumer: aged 25-40 who enjoy luxury and sophistication.
= Aim: Launch the perfume in an English-speaking country.
A sports car
= A high-priced, hand-finished model with a classic design.
= Originally popular in the 1950s and 60s.
= Available in both coupé and soft-top versions.
= Target consumer: high-income executives with a sense of fun and style.
= Aim: An international press and TV campaign.
You are a member of an advertising team at Focus. Prepare an advertising
campaign for one of the products or services, Use the Key questions below to help you.
162 Pusiness Studies


KEY QUESTIONS (ADVERTISING TEAM)
= What is the campaign's key message?
= What special features does the product or service have?
= What are its USPs (Unique Selling Points)?
= Who is your target audience?
= What media will you use? Several, or just one or two?
If you use:
= an advertisement - write the text and do rough artwork.
= a TV commercial - use a storyboard to illustrate your idea.
= a radio spot - write the script, including sound effects and music.
= other media - indicate what pictures, text, slogans, etc., will be used.
= What special promotions will you use at the start of the campaign?
CASE STUDY 2
A. Tribes Travel
Core business: fair trade, ecotourism and responsible travel
= We use a Fairtrade travel mark for all our eco-tourism. This involves: paying
people a fair wage for the services they provide, making sure these people
aren't exploited, and ensuring our tourism (and money generated from this) has
a positive effect on local people and the environment.
= We promote learning about each other's cultures through local guides and
involve local people in the trips.
= Our tourist groups are small to ensure minimum impact on the wildlife,
environment and local communities. We have an affiliated charity which
supports poverty reduction, education, cultural preservation and conservation
projects within areas affected by tourism.
B. Ben & Jerry's Ice Cream
Core business: selling ice cream
The company’s mission is to inform the public about and assist in ethical and
environmental matters.
Our projects are
Pusiness Studies 163


= the Climate Change College (being run in many countries) - to inform about
changing climate
= UK: working with the Fairtrade Foundation to buy sugar from Paraguay and
vanilla from India for vanilla ice cream
= global warming project: plant in the Netherlands uses renewable energy for
manufacturing (wind, sun, water, biomass); factories in Vermont have invested
in wind energy and plan to reduce CO emissions by 10% in the next three years
= buying ‘climate tickets' to fly our businesspeople to counteract the effect of
flying on the environment.
Discussion
1. Who are the likely target customers for each of the products? What kinds of
things matter to these customers?
2. How do the companies' activities promote their ethical position?
VOCABULARY
EXERCISE 1. Complete the sentences with the best word.
1. If a celebrity a product, they say how good it is in advertisements.
a) persuades b) launches c¢) endorses
2. Billboards, those large signs used for advertising, are often called * ”
in British English.
a) leaflets b) slogans ¢) hoardings
3. Manufacturers of toiletries and cosmetics frequently offer free for
customers to try out their new products.
a) samples b) commercials ¢) posters
4. Advertising done at the place where a product is sold is called
advertising”.
a) public b) point-of-sale c) eye-catching
5. of sports or arts events can be a powerful method of advertising.
a) Research b) Endorsement ¢) Sponsorship
6. If you hear about a new product from a friend or relative, this is called
“ advertising”.
164 Pusiness Studies


a) word-for-word b) mouth-to-mouth ¢) word-of-mouth
7. Outdoor advertising is growing rapidly because the cost of TV has
risen dramatically.
a) commercials b) publicity ¢) research
EXERCISE 2. Select the correct alternatives to complete the text.
Advertising informs consumers about the existence and benefits of products and
services and attempts to persuade them to buy them. The best form of advertising is free
1) advertising, which occurs when satisfied customers recommend
products or services to their friends, but very few companies rely on this alone.
Large companies could easily set up their own advertising departments, but they
tend to hire the services of a/an (2) . A contract to produce
advertisements for a specific company, product, or service is known as a/an (3)
- The client company generally decides on its advertising (4)
the amount of money it plans to spend in developing its advertising and
buying media time or space. It also provides a (5) , or a statement of the
objectives of the advertising, as well as an overall advertising strategy concerning what
(6) is to be communicated. The choice of how and where to advertise
(newspapers and magazine ads, radio and television commercials, cinema ads, posters
on hoardings (GB) or billboards (US), point-of-purchase displays in stores, mailings of
leaflets, brochures or booklets, and so on), and in what proportions, is called a (7)
- The set of customers whose needs a company plans to satisfy, and
therefore to expose to an advertisement are known as the (8) market.
The advertising of a particular product or service during a particular period of time is
called an advertising (9) .
Favourable mentions of a company's products or services, in any medium read,
viewed or heard by a company's customers or potential customers, that are not paid for,
are called (10) .
1. a. mouth-to-mouth b. mouth-to-ear ¢. word-of-mouth
2. a. advertising agency b. advertising company c. public relations company
3. a. account b. arrangement c. deal
4. a. campaign b. budget c. effort
5. a. brief b. dossier Cc. message
6. a. facts b. message c. opinions
Pusiness: Studies 165


7. a. medium plan b. medias plan c. media plan
8. a. aimed b. segmented c. target
9. a. campaign b. mix c. plan
10. a. promotions b. publicity c. public relations
EXERCISE 3. Match the terms on the left with the definitions on the right
1. brand-switcher a. a certificate offering consumers a price reduction on a
: particular product
2. brand image b. a consumer who shows no loyalty to a particular brand, but
3. brand loyalty changes among competing products
c. a popular product sold with no profit, in order to attract
4. free sample customers to a store
5. industrial buyer d. a small amount of a new product given to consumers to
encourage them to try it
6. initial trial : i ) )
e. someone who purchases goods or services that will be used
7. loss leader in the production or supply of other goods or services
8. price-conscious f. strongly influenced by the price when goods or services
(adjective) g. the average length of time between a consumer's repeat
} Buc ) purchases of the same product
- purchasing cycle h. the commitment of consumers to a particular brand
10. redeemable i. the first time a consumer buys a product to see what it's like
coupon j. the public's beliefs and perceptions about particular product
LISTENING
Listening 1: Representatives of three companies - a bank, a budget airline, and a
car company - are giving presentations on their companies. Listen and make a note of
each company's brand values.
Company 1: quality
Company 2:
Company 3:
Listening 2: A marketing consultant is giving a presentation called How to make
your website into an effective marketing tool. First look at the features below. Do you
think it's a good or bad idea for websites to have them? Now listen to the presentation.
Does the consultant agree with you?
166 Pusiness Studies


I =" CT
iio]
on]
EY NN NR
EE NE
EE NS NR
pines]
oom
EN NU
NN RO
Listening 3: Joys of Germany is an organization in charge of promoting tourism
in Germany. One of their staff is in London to meet Red Arrow, an advertising agency.
Listen and answer the following questions.
i
- - of: 5
SAL
1. Why do they want to advertise?
2. According to Joys of Germany, what sort of image does Germany have abroad?
3. What do they say are the stereotypes associated with Germany?
4. What kind of visitors does Joys of Germany want to attract to Germany?
Pusiness Studies 167


5. Why is it important to design advertising which is specific to a certain country?
Listening 4: Two colleagues at Red Arrow are discussing which advertising
channels they should use in the Joys of Germany ad campaign. Listen to the dialogue
and make a list of the channels they mention in the table below. Then add one more item
to each category.
nein [oun | ows | one
EE EE RR
Listening 5: Listen to three American radio commercials or advertisements then
answer the following questions.
je; ve °F 1. What are they advertising?
as Wie - Pp
an 7 €§ #2. What message or idea or image or atmosphere is
; - the advertiser trying to create?
AS - Ek PY Jag J 3. Which of these three ads do you prefer, and why?
ma! | 2a /
oy 7, é
UNIT REVIEW
1. What do you think makes an advertisement memorable: humour? originality?
the use of famous actors or personalities? endless repetition? nudity? other elements?
2. Do you find the advertisements on television generally: informative?
persuasive? amusing? well made? artistic? worth watching? an annoying interruption to
the programmes? sometimes better than the programmes?
3. Give examples of ads that you have enjoyed.
4. Give examples of ads that have persuaded you to buy the product.
5. Have you ever passed on advertising material by email or discussed products in
blogs or online forums, thereby helping advertise an organization's products or services?
168 Pusiness: Studies


WRITING
Task 1: Write an essay of at least 250 words about the following topic.
Advertising is a double-edged sword for businesses and consumers alike. While
it can drive brand recognition and sales, it can also lead to concerns such as
consumer manipulation and increased costs.
Discuss the benefits and drawbacks of advertising for both businesses and
consumers.
Your discussion should include examples of how advertising can positively and
negatively influence market dynamics and consumer behavior, supported by insights
from your Business Studies Course.
Pusiness Studies: 169


Task 2: Write an essay of at least 250 words about the following topic.
Advertising serves two primary functions: to inform and to persuade.
Informative advertising provides consumers with essential information about
products and services, while persuasive advertising aims to influence consumer
attitudes and behaviors.
Discuss the role of informative and persuasive advertising in shaping consumer
decisions.
Your discussion should include how these two functions complement each other
and contribute to the effectiveness of advertising campaigns, supported by examples
from what you have learned in your Business Studies Course.
170 Pusiness Studies


UNIT 12
BANKING
LEARNING OBJECTIVES
TPE
After you have read and studied this unit, py o> )
you should be able to % i >» Co ~
= Understand banking products and Y oa N
services and different types of banks Ve DY
= Discuss the subprime crisis and a. 3 “©,
microfinance P - - «
KEY TERMS
= deposit - to place money in a bank; or money placed in a bank
= liquidity - available cash, and how easily other assets can be turned info cash
= collateral- anything that acts as a security or guarantee for a loan
= A morigage - a type of loan used to purchase or maintain a home, land, or other
types of real estate. The borrower agrees to pay the lender over time, typically in a
series of regular payments that are divided info principal and interest. The property
then serves as collateral to secure the loan.
= Overdraft- Something that occurs when you make a purchase with your debit card
or write a check for an amount that exceeds your checking account's available
balance. Many bank accounts offer overdraft protection to help avoid overdraft
fees. Some banks don't charge overdraft fees at all.
= A current account - an account at a bank against which checks can be drawn by
the account depositor; a checking account.
= A savings account - a deposit account that generally earns higher interest than an
interest-bearing checking account. Savings accounts limit the number of certain types
of transfers or withdrawals you can make from the account each monthly statement cycle.
= A deposit account - a bank account maintained by a financial insfitution in which a
customer can deposit and withdraw money.
* Solvency- When banks have enough money fo cover potential losses. Banks are
Pusiness Studies 172


B : expected to maintain a sufficient level of capital to remain solvent and avoid failure.
The FDIC and other federal regulators work with banks to maintain standards for
solvency.
* Maturity date: This is the date of expiration for the contractual obligation of a
financial instrument. For example, certificates of deposit have a maturity date that
depends on the length of the CD term. When the CD matures, you have the option to
withdraw the money. Some banks and credit unions also allow you fo roll it into a
new CD or enable the CD to renew automatically.
LEAD- IN
Which of the following banking products or services do you find the most useful
or necessary?
- a current account (BrE) or checking - buying or selling foreign currency for
account (AmE) travelling (BrE) or travelling (AmE)
- a savings or deposit account (BrE) or - a mortgage (a loan to buy property (BrE)
time or notice account (AmE) or real estate (AmE)
- cashpoints (BtE) or ATMs (Automated | - an overdraft (the possibility to borrow
Teller Machines, AmE) money by spending more than you have in
- a chequebook (BE) or checkbook (AmE) | your bank account)
- a credit card - investment advice
- a debit card - Internet banking (payments, transfers)
“ibaa - telephone banking (payments, transfers)
What other banking services do businesses use?
READING 1: The Goldsmith bankers were an early example of a financial
intermediary.
A financial intermediary is an institution that specializes in bringing lenders and
borrowers together.
A commercial bank borrows money from the public, creating them with a deposit.
The deposit is a liability of the bank. It is money owed to depositors. In turn the banks
lend money to firms, households, or governments wishing to borrow.
Banks are not the only financial intermediaries. Insurance companies, pension
funds, and building societies also take in money in order to relend it. The crucial feature
172 Pusiness: Studies:


of banks is that some of their liabilities are used as a means of payment, and are
therefore part of the money stock.
Commercial banks are financial intermediaries with a government license to make
loans and issue deposits, including deposits against which cheques can be written. We
begin by looking at the present-day UK banking system. Although the details vary from
country to country, the general principle is much the same everywhere.
In the UK, the commercial banking system comprises about 600 registered banks,
the National Giro-bank operating through post offices, and about a dozen trustee
savings banks. Much the most important single group is the London clearing banks. The
clearing banks are so named because they have a central clearing house for handling
payments by cheque.
A clearing system is a set of arrangements in which debts between banks are
settled by adding up all the transactions in a given period and paying only the net
amounts needed to balance inter-bank accounts.
3 Suppose you bank with Barclays but visit a supermarket that banks with Lloyds.
To pay for your shopping you write a cheque against your deposit at Barclays. The
supermarket pays this cheque into its account at Lloyds. In turn, Lloyds presents the
cheque to Barclays which will credit Lloyds’ account at Barclays and debit your
account at Barclays by an equivalent amount. Because you purchased goods from a
supermarket using a different bank, a transfer of funds between the two banks is
required. Crediting or debiting one bank’s account at another bank is the simplest way
to achieve this.
However, on the same day someone else, call her Joan Groover, is probably
writing a cheque on a Lloyd’s deposit account to pay for some stereo equipment from a
shop banking with Barclays. The stereo shop pays the cheque into its Barclay’s account,
increasing its deposit. Barclays then pay the cheque into its account at Lloyds where Ms
Groover’s account is simultaneously debited. Now the transfer flows from Lloyds to
Barclays.
Although in both cases the cheque writer’s account is debited and the cheque
recipient’s account is credited, it does not make sense for the two banks to make two
separate inter-bank transactions between themselves. The clearing system calculates the
net flows between the member clearing banks and these are the settlements that they
make between themselves. Thus, the system of clearing cheques represents another way
society reduces the costs of making transactions.
Pusiness Studies 173


Read the passage and decide if the following statements are T (True), F (False),
or NG (Not given):
1. The role of a financial intermediary serves as a bridge to link lenders and
borrowers
2. Banks are the biggest financial intermediaries.
3. Commercial banks are not allowed to lend and issue deposits.
4. Besides banks, there are other types of financial intermediaries, among which
are insurance companies.
5. In a clearing system, debts between banks are settled by adding up all the
transactions.
6. Settlements made between member clearing banks are calculated by the
clearing system.
7. Society can benefit from the system of clearing cheques as it makes the costs of
transactions lower.
8. Because you used a separate bank to pay for your grocery purchases, a money
transfer between the two banks is necessary.
Fill in the blanks with suitable words
Lender of last resort, Fixed, Transfer, Bankruptcy, Target, Stability, Cheques
1. A of funds between the two banks is required if you
purchased goods from a supermarket using a different bank.
2. A lot of small companies are in danger of because of the
worse economic situation in the country and in the world.
3. For processing as payment, the clearing banks have a
central clearing house.
4. When prices are by the government, it means that the
market mechanism is not working.
5. The government sets an inflation and the Bank’s Monetary
Policy Committee tries to meet it by raising or lowering the official interest rate when
necessary.
174 Pusiness Studies


6. The Bank sometimes acts as to financial institutions in
difficulty, to prevent panic or a loss of confidence spreading through the whole financial
[ system.
7. In addition, the ESCB contributes to the smooth conduct of policies relating to
the supervision of credit institutions and the of the financial system.
READING 2: Insert the names of the following types of financial institutions in the
spaces in the text.
Banks and financial institutions
commercial banks hedge funds investment banks stockbrokers
Islamic banks non-bank financial intermediaries private banks
Retail banks or (1) (often called High Street banks in Britain)
receive deposits from and make loans to, individuals and small companies.
2) work with big companies, giving financial advice, raising capital
by issuing stocks or shares and bonds, arranging mergers and takeover bids, and so on.
They also generally offer stockbroking and portfolio management services to rich
corporate and individual clients. Wealthy individuals can also use (3)
which provide them with banking and investment services, and (4)
, which are private investment funds for wealthy investors (both
individuals and institutions) that use a wider variety of (risky) investing strategies than
traditional investment funds, in order to achieve higher returns.
In the USA, where many banks went bankrupt following the Wall Street Crash in
1929, a law was passed in 1934 (the Glass-Steagall Act) that separated commercial
banks and investment banks or stockbroking firms. For the rest of the 20th century,
{ there were regulations in the US, Britain and Japan that prevented commercial banks
from doing investment banking business. In other countries, including Germany and
Switzerland, large banks did all kinds of financial business. But starting in the 1980s,
many rules were ended by financial deregulation, and Glass- Steagall was repealed in
1999. Large banks became international conglomerates offering a complete range of
financial services that were previously provided by banks, (5) and
insurance companies.
(6) , in Islamic countries and major financial centres, offer
interest-free banking. They do not pay interest to depositors or charge interest to
borrowers, but invest in companies and share the profits (or losses) with their
depositors.
Pusiness Studies 175


B: Yes. I bank with the Bank of Scotland. anything.
14. In my opinion, eating in expensive restaurants is a of money.
EXERCISE 2. Choose the correct word.
1. Spain now uses the euro. Pesetas are no longer 5
a. good money b. legal money c. legal tender
2. 1 bought a TV which doesn't work. I'll take it back to the shop to get 5
a. my money returned b. a refund c. a repayment
3. In a shop, to get a refund, you usually have to show the .
a. receipt b. recipe c. payment ticket
4. T'm paying for my new car in 36 monthly :
a. instalments b. pieces c. parts
5.1 earn a lot of money, but I have a lot of .
a. payouts b. expenses c. paying
6. Famous paintings are usually sold by. .
a. bid b. highest price c. auction
7. In an auction, the item is sold to the person who makes the highest :
a. bid b. price c. offer
8. In Japan, the US dollar is .
a. foreign money b. strange money c. a foreign currency
9. In Britain, it's not usual to discuss your personal
a. money b. finances c. money arrangements
10. You can a house and a car.
a. hire / rent b. hire / hire c. rent /rent or hire
11. Here's the fifty dollars I
a. owe you b. pay you back c. must return
12. The best things in life are
a. free b. not for sale c. not bought and sold
178 Pusiness Studies:


EXERCISE 3. Complete the text using these words:
accounts bank loan cheque customers’
current account debt depositors deposits
lend liabilities liquidity optimize
overdraft salary spread standing order
return transfer wages withdraw
Commercial banks are businesses that trade in money. They receive and hold (1)
, pay money according to (2) instructions, (3)
money, etc.
There are still many people in Britain who do not have a bank (4)
Traditionally, factory workers were paid (5) in cash on Fridays. Non-
manual workers, however, usually receive a monthly (6) in the form of a
cheque or a (7) paid directly into their bank account.
A (8) usually pays little or no interest, but allows the holder to (9)
his or her cash with no restrictions. Deposit accounts pay interest. They
do not usually provide (10) facilities, and notice is often required to
withdraw money. (11) and direct debits are ways of paying regular bills
at regular intervals.
Banks offer both loans and overdrafts. A (12) is a fixed sum of
money, lent for a fixed period, on which interest is paid, bank usually require some form
of security or guarantee before lending. An (13) is an arrangement by
which a customer can overdraw an account, i.e. run up a debt to an agreed limit; interest
on the (14) is calculated daily.
Banks make a profit from the (15) or differential between the
interest rates they pay on deposits and those they charge on loans. They are also able to
lend more money than they receive in deposits because (16) rarely
withdraw all their money at the same time. In order to (17) the return on
their assets (loans), bankers have to find a balance between yield and risk, and (18)
and different maturities, and match these with their (19)
(deposits). The maturity of a loan is how long it will last; the yield of the loan is its
annual (20) — how much money it pays — expressed as a percentage.
Pusiness Studies 179


LISTENING
LISTENING 1: EFB, P17, AUDIO? Listen to a conversation between an
online banking customer and a customer adviser and answer these questions.
1. What problem does Mr Chatterjee have?
2. What does he need to provide to the bank representative?
3. How can he see the page for his account?
4. On the Proceed’ page, what does the information on the right ask?
5. How can he see his statement?
6. What does Mr Chatterjee do at the end?
7. What does the bank representative tell Mr Chatterjee to do the next time he has
a problem?
LISTENING 2: EFB, P54, AUDIO 23 Listen to the three conversations and
decide which aspect of corporate banking the people are discussing. Match the
conversations (1-3) to a-c.
a) risk assessment
b) expansion
¢) ___ financing international trade
LISTENING 3: EFB, P64, AUDIO 27 Listen to an investment manager
talking to a journalist about the economy. Are these sentences true (T) or false (F)?
1. When consumers pay lower interest rates, their instalment payments go down.
(T /F) 2. Lowering interest rates helps the economy very quickly. (T/F)
3. The currency of a country is always worth less when the central bank lowers
interest rates. (T/F)
4. If governments invest in new projects, they will have more debts. (T/F)
180 Pusiness Studies


LISTENING 4: Listen again and complete these slides from the interview.
Bl conn apignianic olin di doi. B.068 si 3.4
Duties of central ba es Te ER TRIED lating
o (1) ZL iaterest rates : the economy -_
® lower rates and effect on economy o ore TaHE) th (IY aN
® borrowers have lower (2) ese
ii © money is (4) — to borrow
Dangers of lower ~~ What governments can do
interest rates ® spend money on (7) 3
® currency may lose (5) Himial A
o can (6) to inflation ® (8) — jobs
Danger: government owes money which
needs to be (9)
LISTENING 5: EFB, P17, AUDIO10 Listen to Caroline, a trainee retail banker,
asking her manager some questions about a customer's account, then answer the
question:
1. What is the problem? » r
2. When does Mr Miiller overdraw his account?
3. What does Mr Miller have to do to be in the p,
black?
4. What does Mr Miiller have to pay when he is
over his limit?
5. Why is his overdraft expensive?
6. What is the solution? ;
UNIT REVIEW
1. Which of the banking facilities do you use?
2. What services do commercial banks offer in your country?
3. What changes have there been in personal banking recently?
4. Give the definition of a commercial bank.
5. Give the definition of an investment bank.
Pusiness Studies 181


WRITING
Task 1: Write an essay of at least 250 words about the following topic.
Banks play a crucial role in the economy by facilitating financial transactions,
providing loans, and safeguarding deposits. They are essential for both individuals
and businesses in managing money and accessing credit.
Discuss the role of banks in supporting economic growth and financial stability.
Your discussion should include how banks contribute to the functioning of the
economy and the potential risks they pose, supported by examples from what you have
learned in your Business Studies Course.
182 PBusiness Studies


Task 2: Write an essay of at least 250 words about the following topic.
Commercial banks and investment banks serve distinct roles in the financial
system.
Discuss the key differences between commercial banks and investment banks and
how each contributes to the financial system.
Your discussion should include how the roles and functions of these two types of
banks impact individuals, businesses, and the economy as a whole, supported by
examples from what you have learned in your Business Studies Course.
Pousiness Studies 183


UNIT 13
ACCOUNTING AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
LEARNING OBJECTIVES ° >
After you have read and studied this unit, } pe —
you should be able to Se
= Understand different types of .8
accounting and financial statements $
= Discuss a company’s financial results = >
*° ° ° U
KEY TERMS 1.3
= Cost accounting - calculating all the expenses involved in producing something,
including materials, labour, and all other expenses
= Tax accounting - calculating how much an individual or a company will have to pay
to the local and national governments (and frying to reduce this to a minimum)
= Auditing - inspecting and reporting on accounts and financial records
= Accounting - preparing financial statements showing income and expenditure, assets
and liabilities ;
® Managerial or management accounting - providing information that will allow a
business to make decisions, plan future operations and develop business strategies
® “creative accounting” - using all available accounting procedures and tricks to
disguise the true financial position of a company
= Bookkeeping - writing down the details of transactions (debits and credits)
® Cash flow statement - a statement giving details of money coming into and leaving
the business, divided into day-to-day operations, investing and financing
= Income statement (or Statement of income, Profit and loss statement, or Profit and
loss account) - a statement showing the difference between the revenues and
expenses of a period
= Balance sheet (or Statement of financial position) - a statement showing the value
of a business's assets, its liabilities, and its capital or shareholders’ equity (money the
business has that belongs to its owners).
184 Pusiness Studies


LEAD- IN
= What is accounting? What skills do you think accountants need?
= Do you think you have these skills? (What are your assets and liabilities?)
READING 1:
An Introduction to Accounting and Financial Statements
‘What is Accounting?
Accounting is the systematic process of recording, summarizing, and analyzing
financial transactions of a business. It involves the preparation of financial statements,
which provide a snapshot of a company's financial health. Accounting is often referred
to as the "language of business" because it communicates the financial performance and
position of an organization to stakeholders, including investors, creditors, and
management.
‘Why is Accounting Important?
Accounting provides critical information that helps management make informed
decisions. For example, financial statements can reveal whether a company is profitable,
how much cash it has on hand, and how much it owes to creditors. Also, businesses
must comply with various laws and regulations, including tax laws. Accurate
accounting ensures that companies meet these legal requirements. Furthermore, through
accounting, businesses can track their performance over time. This helps in setting
goals, measuring progress, and making necessary adjustments. Finally, transparent and
accurate financial reporting builds trust with investors and can attract more investment.
Types of Accounting
There are several branches of accounting, including financial accounting,
managerial accounting, tax accounting, and forensic accounting. Each serves a different
purpose and audience. In terms of accounting principles, Generally Accepted
Accounting Principles (GAAP) and International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS)
are the frameworks that guide how financial statements are prepared and presented.
Recently, modern accounting relies heavily on software and technology, which
streamline processes and improve accuracy.
Financial Statements
Financial statements are formal records of the financial activities and position of a
business. The three main types of financial statements are the cash flow statement,
income statement, and balance sheet.
Pusiness Studies 185


1. Cash Flow Statement
The cash flow statement provides a summary of the cash inflows and outflows
over a specific period. It shows how changes in the balance sheet and income affect
cash and cash equivalents. The primary purpose of the cash flow statement is to provide
information about a company's liquidity and solvency. It helps stakeholders understand
how the company generates and uses cash.
Components:
= Operating Activities: Cash flows from the core business operations, such as
receipts from sales and payments to suppliers.
= Investing Activities: Cash flows from the purchase and sale of assets, like
property and equipment.
= Financing Activities: Cash flows from transactions with the company's owners
and creditors, such as issuing shares or repaying loans.
Example: A company might report cash inflows from operating activities of
$500,000, cash outflows from investing activities of $200,000, and cash inflows from
financing activities of $100,000, resulting in a net increase in cash of $400,000.
2. Income Statement
The income statement, also known as the profit and loss statement, summarizes
the revenues, costs, and expenses incurred during a specific period. The income
statement's primary purpose is to show the company's profitability over a period. It
helps stakeholders assess the company's financial performance.
Components:
® Revenue: Total income generated from sales of goods or services.
= Cost of Goods Sold (COGS): Direct costs attributable to the production of
goods sold by the company.
= Gross Profit: Revenue minus COGS.
= Operating Expenses: Costs required to run the business, such as salaries and
rent.
= Net Income: The profit after all expenses have been deducted from revenue.
Example: A company might report total revenue of $1,000,000, COGS of
$400,000, operating expenses of $300,000, and net income of $300,000.
186 Pusiness: Studies:


3. Balance Sheet
The balance sheet provides a snapshot of a company's financial position at a
specific point in time. It lists the company's assets, liabilities, and shareholders’ equity.
The primary purpose of the balance sheet is to show what the company owns and owes,
as well as the amount invested by shareholders.
Components:
= Assets: Resources owned by the company, such as cash, inventory, and property.
= Liabilities: Obligations the company owes to others, like loans and accounts
payable.
= Shareholders' Equity: The residual interest in the assets of the company after
deducting liabilities, including common stock, and retained earnings.
Example: A company might report total assets of $2,000,000, total liabilities of
$1,200,000, and shareholders' equity of $800,000.
Comprehension Questions
1. What is the primary purpose of accounting?
a) To prepare tax returns
b) To provide financial information for decision making
¢) To manage employee payroll
d) To design marketing strategies
2. Which of the following is NOT a type of accounting?
a) financial accounting b) Managerial accounting
¢) Tax accounting d) Marketing accounting
3. What does GAAP stand for?
a) General Accounting and Auditing Principles
b) Generally Accepted Accounting Principles
c) General Accepted Auditing Practices
d) Generally Accepted Auditing Principles
4. Which financial statement provides information about a company's liquidity?
a) Income statement b) Balance sheet
c) Cash flow statement d) Statement of retained earnings
Pusiness Studies 187


5. What is included in the operating activities section of the cash flow statement?
a) Purchase of equipment b) Issuance of shares
¢) Receipts from sales d) Repayment of loans
6. What is the main purpose of the income statement?
a) To show the company's profitability
b) To list the company's assets and liabilities
¢) To provide information about cash flows
d) To detail the company's equity
7. Which component is NOT part of the income statement?
a) Revenue b) Gross profit
¢) Operating expenses d) Shareholders’ equity
8. What does the balance sheet show?
a) The company's cash inflows and outflows
b) The company's profitability over a period
¢) The company's financial position at a specific point in time
d) The company's tax obligations
9. Which of the following is considered an asset?
a) Accounts payable b) Inventory
c) Loans d) Common stock
10. What is shareholders’ equity?
a) The total amount of cash the company has
b) The obligations the company owes to others
¢) The residual interest in the assets after deducting liabilities
d) The total revenue generated by the company
Open Questions
1. Explain the importance of accounting in business decision making.
2. Describe the three main components of the cash flow statement and provide an
example for each.
188 Fusiness Studies


3. What information does the income statement provide, and why is it important
for stakeholders?
4. How does the balance sheet help in understanding a company's financial
position?
5. Discuss the role of accounting principles like GAAP and IFRS in financial
reporting.
READING 2:
A. Google Inc. Balance sheet
Look at the balance sheet, and answer these questions.
1. Which lines on the balance sheet do the definitions below refer to? (Two have
been done as examples.)
2. Which two figures have to be the same (to balance), by definition?
3. How much money had the company already paid in advance for goods and
services, on the date of the 2008 balance sheet?
4. At the 2008 balance sheet date, which is greater, the amount of capital the
shareholders have paid into the company, or the amount of profit that has not been spent?
5. At the 2008 balance sheet date, which total is higher - the money Google
currently owes or the money that it is owed?
BG [inwillions of § of:
[8 Nr — —
‘Short Term Investments 78910 813702
£8 [iron FT ER TT
— NET. Laon foun
a | Other Current Assets, Total 286.11 2379
Q Total Current Assets 20,178.18 17,289.14
Property laEqupment Tol Gross 525384 445926
Cool Ne (10) Tames i]
[27.) ET i650
Cong Tem vests [73 105969
(=) Other Long Term Asses, Toal 3385 20175
[oldses ——" ~ — opms wwe
= mn =
caved Brpenses made 157542
OQ Other Curent ebioes 10 296 [i
“Total Current Liabilities 2,302.09 2,035.60
Deferred Income Tax a ns 000
Other Long ern Libis Tol Tail [oT]
“Total Liabilities 35871 264613
Common Sct Tow! 05 031
ditions] Pai Capi i EYE] 3022
Retained Eamings (8) Bs zum
Oberkquy lod 265 1337
Total Liabilities & Shareholders’ Ex 31,767.57 25,335.81
Pusiness Studies 189


a. all the money belonging to the company's owners
b. assets whose value can only be turned into cash with difficulty (e.g. reputation,
patents, trademarks, etc.)
c. capital that shareholders have contributed to the company above the nominal or
par value of the stock
d. expenses such as wages, taxes and interest that have not yet been paid at the
date of the balance sheet
e. money owed by Customers for goods or services purchased on credit
f. money owed to suppliers for purchases made on credit
g. money paid in advance for goods and services
h. profits that have not been distributed to shareholders
i. tangible assets such as offices, machines, etc.
j. the difference between the purchase price of acquired companies and their net
tangible assets
k. the total amount of money owed that the company will have to pay out
B. HSBC's 2007 and 2008 income statements
Read the incomstatements and decide whether these statements are true (T)
or false (F). Correct the false ones. Indicate the line(s) in the statement that gives
you the answer.
1. In 2008, the total operating income increased slightly from the previous year.
2. Interest expenses fell by a larger amount than the fall in interest from savers
accounts, so the net figure actually went up on the previous year.
3. Trading income rose significantly from the previous year.
4. Employee salaries and bonuses are deducted from the operating profit.
5. The banking group sold off some German regional banks in 2008.
6. The bank's tax bill in 2008 was lower than in the previous year.
7. Earnings per share were significantly reduced from the previous year.
190 Pusiness: Studies


Summary Consolidated Income Statement ussm »
Interest income 91,301 92,359
Interest expense (48,738) (54,564)
Net interest income 42,563 37,795
Fee income 24,764 26337
Fee expense (4,740) (4.335)
Net fee income 20,024 22,002
Trading income excluding net interest income 847 4458
Net interest income on trading activities 573 5376
Net trading income 6,560 9.834
Changes in fair value of long-term debt issued and related derivatives 6,679 2.812
Net income/(expense) from other financial instruments designated at fair value 2827) 1271
Net income from financial instruments designated at fair value 3852 4083
Gains less losses from financial investments 197 1.956
Gains arising from dilution of interests in associates - 1092
Dividend income mm 324
Net eamed insurance premiums 10,850 9.076
Gains on disposal of French regional banks 2445 -
Other operating income 1,808 1439
Total operating income 88,571 87,601
Net insurance claims incurred and movement in liabilities to policyholders (6,389) (8,608)
Net operating income before loan impairment charges and other
credit-risk provisions 81,682 78,993
Loan impairment charges and other credit-risk provisions (24937) (17.242)
Net operating income 56,745 61.751
Employee compensation and benefits 20,792) (21334)
General and administrative expenses (15,260) (15294)
Depreciation and impairment of property, plant and equipment 1,750) (1,714)
Goodwill impairment (10,564) -
Amortisation and impairment of intangible assets (733) (700)
Total operating expenses (49,099) (39,042)
Operating profit 7,646 22,709
Share of profit in associates and joint ventures 1,661 1,503
Profit before tax 9307 24212
Tax expense (2,809) 3,757)
Profit for the year 6498 20455
Profit attributable to shareholders of the parent company 5728 19,133
Profit attributable to minority interests 770 1322
uUs$
Basic earnings per ordinary share 047 1.65
Diluted earnings per ordinary share 047 163
Dividends per ordinary share 093 087
Reproduced with permission from HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2008
Pusiness Studies: 191


CASE STUDY 1:
Table 1: Financial information about City Café Ltd ($3000)
Te [ws]
a) State and explain two ways in which the owners of City Café Ltd might use the
net profits of the business.
b) Using figures from Table 1 and a ratio, analyze the liquidity of the company.
¢) Using the figures in Table 1 and ratio analysis, evaluate the performance of
City Café Ltd between 2004 and 2005.
CASE STUDY 2
The 2005 accounts for Titan Tankers plc have just been published. Groups of
stakeholders in the business have been waiting to analyze these.
a) identify two of the main accounts that will appear in these published accounts.
b) Explain what one of these accounts contains.
¢) Table 1 contains a list of stakeholders in Titan Tankers plc who want to use and
analyze the company accounts. Copy the table and fill in the "Useful for' column with
one of the options below:
Options:
i) seeing what the level of dividends will be this year
192 Pusiness: Studies


ii) analyzing whether the business has sufficient liquidity
iii) seeing whether the business plans to expand or reduce the labour force
iv) assessing whether the business seems to be making excess profits.
VOCABULARY
EXERCISE 1. Which basic accounting words are defined below?
1. all the money received from business activities during a given period
A. assets B. income C. transactions
2. all the money that a business spends on goods or services during a given period
A. debts B. expenditure C. liabilities
3. a financial operating plan showing expected income and expenditure
A. account B. budget C. financial statement
4. anything owned by a business - cash, buildings, machines, equipment, etc.
A. asset B. income C. revenue
5. all the money that a company will have to pay to someone else in the future,
including debts, taxes and interest payments
A. debts B. expenditure C. liabilities
6. an entry in an account, recording a payment made
A. credit B. debt C. debit
7. an entry in an account, recording a payment received
A. credit B. debit C. income
8. adjective describing something without a material existence, which you can't
touch
A. current B. intangible C. tangible
9. adjective describing a liability which has been incurred but not yet invoiced to
the company
A. accrued B. deferred C. receivable
10. delayed or postponed until a later time
A. deferred B. payable C. retained
Pusiness Studies: 193


EXERCISE 2. Here are four accountancy specialisms. Match these words
and phrases from the article (1-4) with their meanings (a-d).
1. auditing a) when a company's financial records are officially checked
. because the illegal activity is suspected
2. tax accounting CT
. b) an accountant working in this area acts for a person or
3. insolvency company that is no longer able to pay its debts or a company
4. forensic accounting | whose liabilities exceed its assets
¢) preparing a person's or company's financial information in
order to calculate the proportion of their profit that they must
pay to their government
d) checking an organization's activities or performance or
examining a person's or organization's accounts to make sure
that they are true and honest
EXERCISE 3. Match the terms with their definitions.
1. Revenue a. stands for Earnings Before Interest, Tax, Depreciation and
Amortization.
2. Cost of goods sold i. :
b. may also include ‘marketable securities’ (= shares intended
3. EBITDA for disposal within one year).
4. Operating expenses | c. are those where an expense has been incurred, but the
5. Retained profit money is not yet paid.
6. Intangible assets d. income / turnover / sales / the top line
7 In e. (= direct costs) includes manufacturing costs, salaries of
- Inventory manual (= blue-collar) workers etc.
8. Current assets f. the value of raw materials & stock.
9. Fixed assets g. may also include long-term financial investments.
10. Accrued items h. include patents, trademarks & ‘goodwill’ (reputation,
contacts and expertise of companies that have been bought).
i. is transferred to the Balance Sheet, where it joins the
amounts from previous years.
j. (= indirect costs/overhead) include salaries of sales and
office staff, marketing costs, utility bills etc.
194 Pousiness Studies


LISTENING
LISTENING 1: Listen to three conversations and match speakers 1-3 to the
financial institutions they work in A-C.
de LC
4 11 1! SLE >.
EN 4 NationW y
PRO | \
cota bank Nags Np | I buiding society nt gy Bl (coment bank un
LISTENING 2: Caroline meets Mr Miiller, the customer. Listen. Are these
sentences true (T) or false (F)?
1. Mr Miiller wants to talk to Caroline about his account. (T/F)
2. He sometimes has to wait for a customer to pay him. (T / F)
3. Mr Miiller has an overdraft facility to pay his bills. (T / F)
4. The interest rates on a loan are the same as on an overdraft facility. (T / F)
5. Mr Miiller likes Caroline's suggestion. (T / F)
6. Mr Miiller doesn't have to talk to a loan officer because Caroline has the
application form. (T / F)
LISTENING 3: Work in pairs. Listen to a radio interview in which Steve Jones
from Events & Co talks about cash flow in his company and answer these questions.
1. Did the company make a profit from the job he describes?
2. What were some of the problems that he had?
LISTENING 4: Listen again and complete this table.
I EL NL a BL BR
Expenses ((2)€__ [(3)€__ [(4)€__ [€2,500+ |€3,000 [(7)€__|(9N€__
Ge. __ +€375
SE
Pusiness Studies 195


LISTENING 5: Richard Barker is the director of the MBA programme at the
Judge Business School of Cambridge University, and an expert on international
accounting. Listen to him talking about valuing assets, and answer the questions.
1. What examples does Richard Barker give of assets that are
difficult to value?
2. How does he define a company's annual profit or loss?
3. Why is the estimated value of an airport runway probably
not very objective?
7, 4. How does he define or explain depreciation?
Richard Barker
UNIT REVIEW
1. What is accounting? Why is accounting important?
2. What is management’s responsibility for the financial statements?
3. What is the balance sheet? What are its main omponents?
4. Why is cash flow statement? Why is it useful to the users of the financial
statements?
5. What is income statemnet? What are its main components?
196 Pusiness: Studies


WRITING
Task 1: Write an essay of at least 250 words about the following topic.
The cash flow statement is a crucial financial document that provides insight into a
company’s liquidity by tracking the flow of cash in and out of the business. It helps
stakeholders understand how well a company manages its cash to fund operations,
invest, and meet financial obligations.
Analyze the importance of the cash flow statement in financial decision-making
and how it differs from other financial statements like the income statement and balance
sheet.
Your analysis should include examples of how businesses can use the cash flow
statement to assess financial health and plan for the future, supported by concepts from
your Business Studies Course.
Pusiness: Studies: 197


Task 2: Write an essay of at least 250 words about the following topic.
Accounting is often referred to as the language of business because it provides
essential information about a company’s financial performance and position.
Accurate and transparent accounting practices are vital for decision-making,
regulatory compliance, and maintaining investor confidence.
Discuss the role of accounting in business management and how it contributes to
the overall success and sustainability of an organization.
Your discussion should include examples of key accounting principles and
practices, and their impact on business operations, supported by insights from your
Business Studies Course.
198 Pusiness Studies


UNIT 14
THE BUSINESS CYCLE
Business Cycle
peak peak
Expansion Recession Expansion Recession
Depression Recovery
Trough
LEARNING OBJECTIVES
After you have read and studied this unit, you should be able to
= Understand the causes of the business cycle
= Discuss whether governments can or should influence the business cycle
KEY TERMS
ATS ER 1
= Business cycle model: a model showing the increases and decreases in a nation’s
real GDP over time; this model typically demonstrates an increase in real GDP over
the long run, combined with short-run fluctuations in output.
= Expansion: the phase of the business cycle during which output is increasing
= Recession: the phase of the business cycle during which output is falling
= Depression: a deep and prolonged recession
= Peak: the turning point in the business cycle between an expansion and a
contraction; during a peak in the business cycle, output has stopped increasing and
begins to decrease.
= Trough: the turning point in the business cycle between a recession and an
expansion; during a trough in the business cycle, output that had been falling during
Pusiness: Studies 199


the recession stage of the business cycle bottoms out and begins to increase again.
= Recovery: when GDP begins to increase following a contraction and a trough in the
business cycle; an economy is considered in recovery until real GDP returns to its
long-run potential level.
= Potential output: the level of output an economy can achieve when it is producing at
full employment; when an economy is producing at its potential output, it
experiences only its natural rate of unemployment, no more and no less.
= Growth trend: the straight line in the business cycle model, which is usually upward-
sloping and shows the long-run pattern of change in real GDP over time
= Positive output gap: the difference between actual output and potential output when
an economy is producing more than full employment output; when there is a positive
output gap, the rate of unemployment is less than the natural rate of unemployment
and an economy is operating outside of its PPC (The production possibilities curve).
= Negative output gap: the difference between actual output and potential output
when an economy is producing less than full employment output; when there is a
negative output gap, the rate of unemployment is greater than the natural rate of
unemployment and an economy is operating inside its PPC.
LEAD- IN
= How well is the global economy doing at the moment?
= How well is the economy doing in your country?
= When was the last significant change to the economy, and what was the most
probable cause?
= When do you expect the economic situation to change, and why?
= What are the main causes of the alternate periods of growth and contraction of
the business cycle?
200 Pusiness Studies


READING 1:
Vocabulary: Before reading the text, match up the words and definitions below.
The business cycle:
balance of payments gross domestic product (GDP) consumption
demand supply downturn upturn
save expectations
1. a decline in economic activity
2. an increase in economic activity
3. beliefs about what will happen in the future
4. purchasing and using goods and services
5. the difference between the funds a country receives and those it pays for all
international transactions
6. the total market value of all the goods and services produced in a country
during a given period
7. the willingness and ability of consumers to purchase goods and services
8. the willingness and ability of businesses to offer goods or services for sale
9. to put money aside to spend in the future
Reading text: Read the text and fill in the gaps with words from the exercise
above.
What causes the business cycle?
The business cycle or trade cycle is a permanent feature of market economies: (1)
alternately grows and contracts. During an (2)
parts of the economy expand to the point where they are working at full capacity, so that
production, employment, business investments, profits, prices, and interest rates all tend
to rise. A long period of expansion is called a boom. But at some point, there will
inevitably be a (3) . The economy will hit a peak and start to contract
again, the demand for goods and services will decline and the economy will begin to
work at below its potential. Investment, output, employment, profits, commodity and
share prices, and interest rates will generally fall. A downturn that lasts more than six
months is called a recession; one that lasts for a year or two is generally called
Pusiness Studies 201


depression or a slump. Eventually, the economy will bottom out, and there will be a
recovery or an upturn.
The most probable cause of the business cycle is people's spending or (4)
decisions, which in turn are based on (5) A
country's output, investment, unemployment, (6) ;and so on, all
depend on millions of decisions by consumers and businesses on whether to spend,
borrow or (7) .
When economic times are good or when people feel confident about the future,
they spend and run up debts. At a certain point, spending has to slow down and debts
have to be paid. If interest rates unexpectedly rise, a lot of people find themselves
paying more than they anticipated on their mortgage or rent, and so have to consume
less. Similarly, if people are worried about the possibility of losing their jobs in the near
future, they tend to start saving money and consuming less, which leads to a fall in (8)
and consequently a fall in production and employment. Investment is
closely linked to consumption and only takes place when demand is growing. As soon
as demand stops growing, investment in new factories, machines, etc. falls, which
contributes to the downturn. But if (9) exceeds demand, prices
should fall, and encourage people to start buying again. Eventually, the economy will
reach a trough or bottom out, and there will be a recovery or an upturn.
This is the internal (or endogenous) theory of the business cycle; there are also
external (or exogenous) theories, which look for causes outside economic activity, such
as scientific advances, natural disasters, elections or political shocks, demographic
changes, and so on. The economist Joseph Schumpeter believed that the business cycle
is caused by major technological inventions (e.g. the steam engine, railways,
automobiles, electricity, microchips), which lead to periods of ‘creative destruction’
during which radical innovations destroy established companies or industries.
Comprehension: Complete the following sentences.
1. A downturn begins when...
2. People spend, and borrow money, when
3. People tend to spend less when
4. When interest rates rise ...
5. Companies only invest while ...
6. Creative destruction means that
202 Pusiness Studies:


READING 2:
Vocabulary: Fiscal and monetary policy
Task 1: Before reading about the government and the economy, match up the
following words and definitions.
1. equilibrium A. an amount of money that is smaller than is needed (e.g.
F when spending exceeds revenues)
2. dle B. an excess: a quantity that is larger than is needed
3. surplus C. a state of balance, for example when supply is the same as
4. fiscal policy demand
5. monetary policy D. government or central bank actions concerning the rate of
growth of the money in circulation
6. money supply . . 3 3
E. government actions concerning taxation and public
7. Keynesianism expenditure
F. the economic theory that government monetary and fiscal
policy should stimulate business activity and increase
employment in a recession
G. the total amount of money available in an economy at a
particular time
Task 2: Match up the words below into pairs with similar meanings.
boost expand decrease depression expenditure production recovery
spending stimulate grow reduce surplus excess output
slump upturn
Task 3: Match up the words below into pairs with opposite meanings.
boom contract demand depression endogenous save
expand exogenous peak spend supply trough
Pusiness Studies 203


Reading text: Keynesianism and monetarism
Read the following text and decide which paragraphs could be given these
headings:
A. Countercyclical policies don't work until too late )
B. Keynesianism returns re
C. The Keynesian argument “i
D. The lesson of the 1930s 4
E. The monetarist argument
John Maynard Keynes
The great depression of the 1930s demonstrated that, at least in the
short term, the market system does not automatically lead to full employment. John
Maynard Keynes argued that market forces could produce a durable equilibrium with
high unemployment, fewer goods being produced, fewer people employed, and reduced
rates of income and investment.
The classical economic theory stated that in the long run, excess savings would
cause interest rates to fall and investment to increase again; Keynes famously riposted
that “In the long run, we are all dead”.
He, therefore, recommended governmental intervention in the
economy, to counteract the business cycle. During an inflationary boom, governments
could decrease their spending or increase taxation. During a recession, on the contrary,
they could increase their expenditure, decrease taxation, or increase the money supply
and reduce interest rates, so as to boost the economy and increase output, investment,
consumption and employment.
In the 1950s and 1960s, monetarist economists, most notably
Milton Friedman, began to argue that Keynesian fiscal policy had negative effects in the
long term. They insisted that money is neutral, meaning that in the long run, increasing
(or inflating) the money supply will only change the price level (lead to inflation) and
have no effect on output and employment. They argued that governments should
abandon the attempt to manage the level of demand in the economy. On the contrary,
they should try to make sure that there is constant and non-inflationary growth in the
money supply.
Monetarists and believers in free markets argue that since
governments aren't able to foresee a coming recession any more quickly than the
companies that make up the economy, their fiscal measures usually only begin to take
204 Pusiness Studies


effect when the economy is already recovering, and simply make the next swing in the
business cycle even greater.
By the beginning of the 21* century, the argument that free
markets and competition are efficient, and should be allowed to operate with a
minimum of governmental intervention, seemed to be dominant. But when the subprime
crisis occurred in 2008, and financial institutions and large automobile companies began
to go bankrupt, Keynesianism suddenly came back into fashion. Governments around
the world poured huge amounts of money into the economy. Monetarists were
outnumbered but continued to argue that this would inevitably lead to massive inflation
in the future.
Comprehension: Match up the following half-sentences.
1. Keynes argued that left to itself, the free | A. cause interest rates to fall and
market system investment to increase again.
2. In classical theory, if consumption and | B. decrease their spending or increase
investment fall, excess savings should taxation
3. Keynesians argue that during an | C. does not guarantee full employment.
inflationary boom governments should D. in 2008, when major financial
4. Keynesians argue that during an | institutions began to go bankrupt.
economic downturn governments should E. increase their spending or the money
5. Monetarists argue that in the long run, supply.
6. Monetarists also believe that Keynesian | F. increasing the money supply merely
fiscal measures leads to inflation.
7. There was a revival in Keynesian | G. only begin to take effect too late, when
policies and government intervention an upturn is already beginning.
CASE STUDY 1:
The graph below shows a business cycle for Country Z
I
H
ls
Time
Pusiness Studies 205


Which of the following most likely describes what Country Z experiences as
it moves from point A to point B? Choose 1 answer:
A. An increase in unemployment and an inward shift of its PPC
B. Rising output and a fall in cyclical unemployment
C. Rising unemployment and a movement from a point on its PPC to a point
inside its PPC
D. A negative output gap and an increase in the natural rate of unemployment
E. Falling unemployment and a movement from a point inside its PPC to a point
closer to its PPC
CASE STUDY 2
Abe’s Best Cycles
Abe’s Best Cycles (ABC) aessbie
produces motorbikes in country X. _— growth
The company was set up 50 years 7 _ ===" inflation
ago. The motorbikes are designed to Fadl
% X 7
meet the needs of low-income 7)
consumers in country X. It has been a » rie -
very successful company and has - pnemEoTmet
increased its output each year. The
share price of ABC has been rising time
and dividends are paid each year.
ABC employs 500 skilled workers in its factory and uses capital-intensive
production. 90% of all the motorbikes are sold in country X. There are several other
motorbike manufacturers in country X but more than half of the motorbikes sold in
country X are imported. The competitors of ABC import all of their components whilst
ABC imports only half of the components it needs. It buys the rest from local suppliers.
The economy of country X has been growing rapidly after being in a recession.
However, inflation is starting to increase and become a problem. The government is
considering different ways to reduce inflation. The currency used in county X is the
dollar (8), and the average exchange rate of the $ against other currencies has been
appreciating.
1. Identify the four stages of the business cycle.
206 Pusiness Studies


2. Outline two effects on ABC of rising inflation.
3. Explain two problems for ABC caused by high levels of economic growth in
country X.
4. Do you think falling unemployment will always benefit ABC? Justify your
answer.
5. Outline two effects on ABC if the government of country X increases import
tariffs on all imported goods.
VOCABULARY
EXERCISE 1. Complete the text about dealing with the business cycle with
the phrases in the box.
government debt policy-makers labour market
new borrowing side-effects tax cuts
What can central bankers and government (1) do? Can they
prevent a contraction from turning into a recession? What tools are available to them?
The following three are the most important:
Interest rate adjustments
The strongest and fastest tool in a weakening economy is the Central Banks'
ability to cut interest rates. For companies and individuals with existing bank loans,
repayments are reduced; for others, (2) becomes less expensive.
Most Central Banks drop rates by quarter-points or, at crucial times, half-points.
Lowering rates still takes two or three quarters to benefit an economy, and it does also
have unfortunate (3) 5
The negative consequences are that it weakens a nation's currency and that any
growth it causes may be inflationary.
Economic stimulus
A national government can choose to spend money - usually money it must
borrow - on all sorts of projects in order to stimulate the economy. This puts money
back into people's pockets so that they can buy goods and services to boost the
economy. (4) are another way of achieving the same effect. The
Pusiness Studies 207


problem arises when these measures lead to high levels of (5) )
Eventually, that debt will have to be repaid.
Regulatory reforms
A country can implement reforms to the law in order to stimulate growth. These
include measures to enhance competition, to liberalize the (6) , to
make it easier to start a new business, etc.
EXERCISE 2. Match each sector of the economy 1-10 with an industry group
a-j.
1. Basic materials a. hotels, restaurants
2. Capital goods b. steel, chemicals
3. Commercial services c. employment agencies, auditing
4. Consumer discretionary d. machinery, equipment
5. Consumer staples e. household goods, food retailing
6. Energy f. banking, insurance
7. Financials g. software, communications equipment
8. Technology h. oil production, gas production
9. Transportation i. electricity, water
10. Utilities J. airlines, logistics
EXERCISE 3. Underline the correct words in italics. Check any unknown
words in a dictionary.
1. The consumer discretionary sector of the economy starts to recover when
interest rates are high /low, and just before the general economy picks up / turns down.
2. Investors favour the consumer staples sector at the beginning/end of the growth
cycle, just as the markets are picking up / turning down.
3. If a government or company wants to borrow money, it can issue a bond/ an
obligation. Investors receive a fixed/ variable rate of interest over a fixed period of time
and then get their original investment back at the end.
4. A rise in interest rates makes borrowing cheaper / more expensive. This cools/
stimulates the economy.
5. Central Banks lower interest rates if they think the economy is likely to grow/
contract and will act aggressively if they think there is a danger of a boom/ recession.
208 Pusiness Studies


READING 2:
Vocabulary: Fiscal and monetary policy
Task 1: Before reading about the government and the economy, match up the
following words and definitions.
1. equilibrium A. an amount of money that is smaller than is needed (e.g.
F when spending exceeds revenues)
2. dle B. an excess: a quantity that is larger than is needed
3. surplus C. a state of balance, for example when supply is the same as
4. fiscal policy demand
5. monetary policy D. government or central bank actions concerning the rate of
growth of the money in circulation
6. money supply . . 3 3
E. government actions concerning taxation and public
7. Keynesianism expenditure
F. the economic theory that government monetary and fiscal
policy should stimulate business activity and increase
employment in a recession
G. the total amount of money available in an economy at a
particular time
Task 2: Match up the words below into pairs with similar meanings.
boost expand decrease depression expenditure production recovery
spending stimulate grow reduce surplus excess output
slump upturn
Task 3: Match up the words below into pairs with opposite meanings.
boom contract demand depression endogenous save
expand exogenous peak spend supply trough
Pusiness Studies 203


Reading text: Keynesianism and monetarism
Read the following text and decide which paragraphs could be given these
headings:
A. Countercyclical policies don't work until too late )
B. Keynesianism returns re
C. The Keynesian argument “i
D. The lesson of the 1930s 4
E. The monetarist argument
John Maynard Keynes
The great depression of the 1930s demonstrated that, at least in the
short term, the market system does not automatically lead to full employment. John
Maynard Keynes argued that market forces could produce a durable equilibrium with
high unemployment, fewer goods being produced, fewer people employed, and reduced
rates of income and investment.
The classical economic theory stated that in the long run, excess savings would
cause interest rates to fall and investment to increase again; Keynes famously riposted
that “In the long run, we are all dead”.
He, therefore, recommended governmental intervention in the
economy, to counteract the business cycle. During an inflationary boom, governments
could decrease their spending or increase taxation. During a recession, on the contrary,
they could increase their expenditure, decrease taxation, or increase the money supply
and reduce interest rates, so as to boost the economy and increase output, investment,
consumption and employment.
In the 1950s and 1960s, monetarist economists, most notably
Milton Friedman, began to argue that Keynesian fiscal policy had negative effects in the
long term. They insisted that money is neutral, meaning that in the long run, increasing
(or inflating) the money supply will only change the price level (lead to inflation) and
have no effect on output and employment. They argued that governments should
abandon the attempt to manage the level of demand in the economy. On the contrary,
they should try to make sure that there is constant and non-inflationary growth in the
money supply.
Monetarists and believers in free markets argue that since
governments aren't able to foresee a coming recession any more quickly than the
companies that make up the economy, their fiscal measures usually only begin to take
204 Pusiness Studies


effect when the economy is already recovering, and simply make the next swing in the
business cycle even greater.
By the beginning of the 21* century, the argument that free
markets and competition are efficient, and should be allowed to operate with a
minimum of governmental intervention, seemed to be dominant. But when the subprime
crisis occurred in 2008, and financial institutions and large automobile companies began
to go bankrupt, Keynesianism suddenly came back into fashion. Governments around
the world poured huge amounts of money into the economy. Monetarists were
outnumbered but continued to argue that this would inevitably lead to massive inflation
in the future.
Comprehension: Match up the following half-sentences.
1. Keynes argued that left to itself, the free | A. cause interest rates to fall and
market system investment to increase again.
2. In classical theory, if consumption and | B. decrease their spending or increase
investment fall, excess savings should taxation
3. Keynesians argue that during an | C. does not guarantee full employment.
inflationary boom governments should D. in 2008, when major financial
4. Keynesians argue that during an | institutions began to go bankrupt.
economic downturn governments should E. increase their spending or the money
5. Monetarists argue that in the long run, supply.
6. Monetarists also believe that Keynesian | F. increasing the money supply merely
fiscal measures leads to inflation.
7. There was a revival in Keynesian | G. only begin to take effect too late, when
policies and government intervention an upturn is already beginning.
CASE STUDY 1:
The graph below shows a business cycle for Country Z
I
H
ls
Time
Pusiness Studies 205


Which of the following most likely describes what Country Z experiences as
it moves from point A to point B? Choose 1 answer:
A. An increase in unemployment and an inward shift of its PPC
B. Rising output and a fall in cyclical unemployment
C. Rising unemployment and a movement from a point on its PPC to a point
inside its PPC
D. A negative output gap and an increase in the natural rate of unemployment
E. Falling unemployment and a movement from a point inside its PPC to a point
closer to its PPC
CASE STUDY 2
Abe’s Best Cycles
Abe’s Best Cycles (ABC) aessbie
produces motorbikes in country X. _— growth
The company was set up 50 years 7 _ ===" inflation
ago. The motorbikes are designed to Fadl
% X 7
meet the needs of low-income 7)
consumers in country X. It has been a » rie -
very successful company and has - pnemEoTmet
increased its output each year. The
share price of ABC has been rising time
and dividends are paid each year.
ABC employs 500 skilled workers in its factory and uses capital-intensive
production. 90% of all the motorbikes are sold in country X. There are several other
motorbike manufacturers in country X but more than half of the motorbikes sold in
country X are imported. The competitors of ABC import all of their components whilst
ABC imports only half of the components it needs. It buys the rest from local suppliers.
The economy of country X has been growing rapidly after being in a recession.
However, inflation is starting to increase and become a problem. The government is
considering different ways to reduce inflation. The currency used in county X is the
dollar (8), and the average exchange rate of the $ against other currencies has been
appreciating.
1. Identify the four stages of the business cycle.
206 Pusiness Studies


2. Outline two effects on ABC of rising inflation.
3. Explain two problems for ABC caused by high levels of economic growth in
country X.
4. Do you think falling unemployment will always benefit ABC? Justify your
answer.
5. Outline two effects on ABC if the government of country X increases import
tariffs on all imported goods.
VOCABULARY
EXERCISE 1. Complete the text about dealing with the business cycle with
the phrases in the box.
government debt policy-makers labour market
new borrowing side-effects tax cuts
What can central bankers and government (1) do? Can they
prevent a contraction from turning into a recession? What tools are available to them?
The following three are the most important:
Interest rate adjustments
The strongest and fastest tool in a weakening economy is the Central Banks'
ability to cut interest rates. For companies and individuals with existing bank loans,
repayments are reduced; for others, (2) becomes less expensive.
Most Central Banks drop rates by quarter-points or, at crucial times, half-points.
Lowering rates still takes two or three quarters to benefit an economy, and it does also
have unfortunate (3) 5
The negative consequences are that it weakens a nation's currency and that any
growth it causes may be inflationary.
Economic stimulus
A national government can choose to spend money - usually money it must
borrow - on all sorts of projects in order to stimulate the economy. This puts money
back into people's pockets so that they can buy goods and services to boost the
economy. (4) are another way of achieving the same effect. The
Pusiness Studies 207


problem arises when these measures lead to high levels of (5) )
Eventually, that debt will have to be repaid.
Regulatory reforms
A country can implement reforms to the law in order to stimulate growth. These
include measures to enhance competition, to liberalize the (6) , to
make it easier to start a new business, etc.
EXERCISE 2. Match each sector of the economy 1-10 with an industry group
a-j.
1. Basic materials a. hotels, restaurants
2. Capital goods b. steel, chemicals
3. Commercial services c. employment agencies, auditing
4. Consumer discretionary d. machinery, equipment
5. Consumer staples e. household goods, food retailing
6. Energy f. banking, insurance
7. Financials g. software, communications equipment
8. Technology h. oil production, gas production
9. Transportation i. electricity, water
10. Utilities J. airlines, logistics
EXERCISE 3. Underline the correct words in italics. Check any unknown
words in a dictionary.
1. The consumer discretionary sector of the economy starts to recover when
interest rates are high /low, and just before the general economy picks up / turns down.
2. Investors favour the consumer staples sector at the beginning/end of the growth
cycle, just as the markets are picking up / turning down.
3. If a government or company wants to borrow money, it can issue a bond/ an
obligation. Investors receive a fixed/ variable rate of interest over a fixed period of time
and then get their original investment back at the end.
4. A rise in interest rates makes borrowing cheaper / more expensive. This cools/
stimulates the economy.
5. Central Banks lower interest rates if they think the economy is likely to grow/
contract and will act aggressively if they think there is a danger of a boom/ recession.
208 Pusiness Studies


6. Stock markets tend to anticipate/ move in line with/ react to changes in the real
economy.
7. Interest rates tend to bottom out before/ after both the stock markets and the
real economy.
8. A rising market is called a bear/ bull market. People who think that a particular
market is going to rise in the future are described as being bullish/ bull-like on that
market.
LISTENING
LISTENING 1: Listen to Michael Kitson talking about the causes of the
business cycle, and answer the questions.
i tH 1. What does Kitson say many economists believed a year
, orso previously?*
2. According to Kitson, were they right?
: Aa 3. What does Kitson say causes economic booms?
iL A Al A 4. What about depressions?
© NL *Kitson was talking in early 2008.
Michael Kitson
LISTENING 2: Listen to Michael Kitson talking about Keynesianism, the
economic theory named after John Maynard Keynes, and fill in the gaps below.
... we still have the business cycle, OK, we can still have the possible problems
of a (1) , which makes the argument for what I think is standard
Keynesianism, the way you (2) budget (3) or budget
“) depending on whether the economy's (5) or is in (6)
. OK, and the government's golden rule in the UK is consistent with
that, in general. If the economy's turning down it may make sense for
governments to have budget deficits, and to keep (7) in the
economy. That's the Keynesianism argument about ironing out the business
cycle, which I think is important because recessions can have very long-term (8)
effects.
Pusiness Studies 209


LISTENING 3: Susan Barratt, a Financial Director, talks about the process
of acquiring another company. Listen to the first part of the interview and answer
these questions.
1. What three preparatory steps does Susan mention?
2. After taking the preparatory steps what do companies need to do next?
LISTENING 4: Listen to the first part of the interview again and complete
the examples of strategic goals:
1. market ......... 3. vertical........ooo.u..
2. economic ............. 4. international...
LISTENING 5: In the second part of the interview Susan Barratt talks about
the successful integration of a new business. She mentions two sides of success.
‘What are they? Give an example of each.
UNIT REVIEW
1. Why does unemployment rise during the recession phase of the business cycle?
2. What is the difference between a recession and a depression?
3. If a country is producing beyond its production possibilities curve, what phase
of the business cycle is it most likely experiencing?
4. During a downturn, to what extent should the government intervene in the
economy, by creating demand or jobs? How could it do these things?
210 Pusiness Studies


WRITING
Task 1: Write an essay of at least 250 words about the following topic.
The business cycle refers to the cyclical fluctuations in economic activity that
occur over time.
Explain the different phases of the business cycle (expansion, peak,
contraction/recession, trough) and discuss the characteristics of each phase.
Analyze how businesses and governments typically respond to these cyclical
fluctuations, supported by examples from what you have learned in your Business
Studies Course.
Pusiness Studies 241


Task 2: Write an essay of at least 250 words about the following topic.
Keynesianism and monetarism are two influential economic theories that offer
different approaches to managing the economy. While Keynesianism emphasizes the
role of government intervention during economic downturns, monetarism focuses on
controlling the money supply to regulate economic stability.
Discuss the impact of Keynesianism and monetarism on economic policy and
society.
Your discussion should include both positive and negative aspects, supported by
examples from what you have learned in your Economics Studies Course.
212 Pusiness Studies


UNIT 15
CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY
LEARNING OBJECTIVES i a
After you have read and studied this unit, you 8 - ap ®
should be able fo a Ry)
gal S 4 inl
= Understand the responsibilities of business. 3 . W. * ®
® Discuss the ethics of various business practices. 1 A Ey
KEY TERMS
= Ethical standard: a rule for moral behaviour in a particular area
= Ethical behaviour: doing things that are morally right
= Ethical lapse: temporary failure fo act in the correct way
* Ethical dilemma: a choice between two actions that might both be morally wrong
= Ethical stance: a stated opinion about the right thing to do in a particular situation
= Ethical issue: an area where moral behaviour is important
= Business Ethics: Standards of business behaviour that promote human welfare and
“the good.”
® Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR): A company’s commitment to improving or
enhancing community well-being through discretionary contributions of corporate
resources. There are five dimensions of CSR: Environment, Social, Economic,
Stakeholder, and Volunteerism.
LEAD- IN
= What words do you associate with 'corporation'? Write down five words.
= What companies/brands do you like? Why?
= Do you know companies that have bad reputations? What for?
= Are there products you won't buy for ethical reasons? If so, what are they?
Pusiness Studies: 213


= Do you think that a company must have responsibilities to its suppliers, its
customers, its employees, the local community and society in general as well as
its holders?
READING 1: Four of the views expressed in the illustration on this picture
are referred to in the following text. Which are they?
- 1 AK EH
i | (RL I = — He
Pvenessyt ul ll (caveat Yr
nessa Or il ie 58
CLS |i d= ill
Zs y= BN oops) || i
25 oe) GIA
2 a2 QE gr
SERA Bs Mail {I
24 gy PT a
Lire —0— You should ERE IES
7 Tf All You have to ahs | B=
= BS Pio [lchhereto’ Sorta Hl SUE
"Compgnies ha e anal dorts of maraity, Sheddords her ;
igation to maximise WX) Your nl eth 7
profits because shareholders ASS ical abl aon [A company has
expect the maximum return at Jo is fo acfwithindg 2” | responsibilifies fo its
ort their nyestments. £E-8) SEIN the low. £27288 supp iers,s customers,
Zao SEES be ry fs emp Yees, the
Gre GEL CLO a arnt
UIENC Az Sor pr eid well
Wr TEL se oi as fo ifs
1 = ry Leg 5 shareholders,
Se Ede &=% ST
PROFITS AND SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY
Pure free market theorists argue that the function of a business is to make profits.
Milton Friedman, for example, argued that any corporate action inspired by “social
responsibility”, rather than the attempt to maximize profits, is “unbusinesslike”. In an
article called “The social responsibility of business is to increase its profits”, he argued
that people who say that business has “responsibilities for providing employment,
eliminating discrimination, avoiding pollution”, and so on, are “undermining the basis
of a free society”. For Friedman, “only people can have responsibilities”, and not
corporations:
In a free enterprise, private-property system, a corporate executive is an employee
of the owners of the business. He has direct responsibility to his employers. That
responsibility is to conduct the business in accordance with their desires, which
214 Pusiness Studies


generally will be to make as much money as possible, while of course conforming to the
basic rules of the society, both those embodied in law and those embodied in ethical
custom.
Therefore, “to say that the corporate executive has a "social responsibility” in his
capacity as a businessman” is to say that “he is to act in some way that is not in the
interest of his employers”. Because if an executive makes 'social' expenditures he is:
spending someone else's money ... Insofar as his actions in accord with his “social
responsibility” reduce returns to stockholders, he is spending their money. Insofar as his
actions raise the price to customers, he is spending the customers’ money. Insofar as his
actions lower the wages of some employees, he is spending their money.
Furthermore, such actions are “undemocratic” as they involve corporations taking
on responsibilities that should be the government's: taxation and expenditure, and
solving social problems. If the elected government is not taking certain actions, it is
because the voters did not want it to do so. Any such action “harms the foundations of a
free society” and reveals an unfortunate “suicidal impulse” in businessmen.
Friedman does not seem to consider the possibility that stockholders might prefer
to receive lower dividends but live in a society with less pollution or less unemployment
and fewer social problems.
An alternative view to the “stockholder model” exemplified by Friedman's article
is the stakeholder model. According to this approach, business managers have
responsibilities to all the groups of people with a stake in or an interest in or a claim on
the firm. These will include employees, suppliers, customers and the local community,
as well as the stockholders. Proponents of the stakeholder approach argue that all these
groups should be represented on a company's board of directors.
Comprehension questions
1. According to Friedman, why should business executives only seek to maximize
profits?
2. Who are the employers of corporate executives?
3. In what negative way do ‘socially responsible’ actions affect stockholders,
customers, and employees?
4. According to Friedman, in what way are “socially responsible” actions by
businesses “undemocratic”?
Pusiness Studies: 215


5. According to the text, what other desires might stockholders have, apart from
making as much money as possible?
6. What is a “stakeholder”?
Vocabulary: Find words in the text that mean the following:
1. treating some people in a worse way than you treat other people
2. making something weaker
3. an economic system in which anyone can raise capital, form a business, and
offer goods or services
4. complying with or following (rules, etc.)
5. expressed, given a material form
6 according to generally accepted beliefs based on morals
7. a usual way of behaving
8. to the degree or extent that
9. causes damage to
10. supporters, people who argue in favour of something
READING 2: Read the text below about the future of corporate philanthropy.
Choose the best sentence from the list to fill each of the gaps and mark a letter a) —
h). Do not use any letter more than once. There is an example at the beginning, (0).
The future of corporate philanthropy
Some of the biggest and most powerful companies in the world today are
becoming almost as well known for their high-profile corporate social responsibility
initiatives as for their products and services. Some are cynical about the motivations for
this. (0) E . He maintains that corporate social philanthropic activities have
become “heavily promoted story tools that present a deliberately over-inflated image of
corporate citizenship”. What is more worrying still is that all this activity has effectively
served as a smokescreen to hide a significant fall off in corporate charitable
contributions worldwide. (1) Business charitable deductions now only
average about 0.7% of pre-tax earnings.
As ‘real’ contributions to charitable causes diminish, Hindery laments the fact that
so many CEOs have failed to understand the fact that an effectively managed
contribution program can deliver strong returns to a corporation. He maintains that if
216 Pusiness Studies


company donations are directed to nonprofit groups closely aligned with the interests of
the corporation's business objectives and the community context in which it operates,
they can become a powerful business tool. (2) Examples of this kind
of ‘strategic’ corporate philanthropy would include, for example, financial literacy
programs supported by financial institutions, or health and wellness programs funded by
pharmaceutical companies (3) Moreover, the kind of multiple-
stakeholder participation in such initiatives require and generate can become a powerful
social force and an agent for positive change.
“ Contributions that are purely selfish in their intent, for
example, that are designed only to bolster the bottom line, or to support pet projects of
senior managers or board members, do not, again according to Hindery, “satisfy the
requirements of good corporate citizenship.” (5) In other words, when
a business gets too ‘strategic’; in its giving, this will often result in it cutting its overall
contribution rather than, for example, deciding to focus on one or two strategic causes.
Then there are those who would advocate the abolition of corporate philanthropy
altogether. (6) They would argue that because corporations are
constantly pushing against the limits imposed by society in pursuit of profits they will
never make good citizens and should not be treated as citizens. (7)
Given the bottom-line-driven world we live in, it seems unlikely that the current state of
corporate giving is unlikely to change any time soon.
A. Without any additional promotional effort by the company concerned, such
programs often end up elevating awareness of the brand to the same degree as
for the cause.
B. There is also the danger that strategic philanthropy is actually at the root of
the downward trend in contributions to charity.
C. Of course, for acts of corporate philanthropy to become solely about
advancing the interests of the company, would be a contradiction in terms
D. They should not be regulated or boycotted into doing the right thing.
E. Leo Hindery Jr, Chairman of the Smart Globalization Initiative at the New
America Foundation believes that, increasingly, companies exploit their
corporate social responsibility initiatives for promotional purposes.
F. Whereas 25 years ago, businesses allocated on average 2% of their pre-tax
profits in gifts and grants, today companies are only one-third as generous.
Pusiness Studies 217


G. In such cases a donation, of, for example, 1% of pretax earnings, begins, as
Hindery says to “take on the look and feel of an investment, not a handout.”
H. They include, for example, the acolytes of Friedman who continue to believe
that a company should only be responsible to its shareholders.
CASE STUDY 1
Businesses must ensure that any environmental claims they make are genuine.
Making misleading or untrue claims is called greenwashing, which often results in bad
publicity. Some critics suggest that CSR (Corporate Social Responsibility)
environmental activities are just attempts to get governments to impose fewer legal
controls and restrictions on powerful multinational firms. A business might invest in
CSR projects to distract attention away from environmental damage caused by its other
activities. However, if found out, this is likely to backfire badly on the business.
Virgin’s environmental policies: genuinely green or just greenwash?
The Virgin Atlantic jumbo jet that flew between London and Amsterdam using a
proportion of biofuel was a world first. This fuel was derived from Brazilian babassu
nuts and coconuts and was less polluting than ordinary jet fuel. Airline boss Sir Richard
Branson hailed this as a vital breakthrough for the industry. Other well-publicized
environmentally friendly measures used by the airline have included towing aircraft to
runways for take-off (not using aircraft engines) and offering first-class passengers train
tickets to the airport instead of chauffeur-driven cars. Very few passengers have taken
up this last offer and aircraft towing has been stopped as it causes damage to the
undercarriage.
Greenpeace has labelled these efforts to make air travel more environmentally
friendly as ‘high altitude greenwash’ and stated that less air travel is the only answer to
the growing problem of climate-changing pollution caused by air travel. A Friends of
the Earth spokesman said that biofuels do little to reduce emissions and large-scale
production of them leads to higher food prices.
1. Analyze why Virgin Atlantic is making efforts to be more environmentally
friendly.
2. Evaluate the impact of groups such as Greenpeace and Friends of the Earth on
business decisions.
218 Pusiness: Studies


CASE STUDY 2: Imagine yourself in the following situations. In each case,
you can either agree to the suggested action or refuse. After you choose, compare
your choice with the list provided by the teacher.
1. Everybody expects the government to change at the next election. The
Chairman suggests that all the members of the board should start ‘wining and dining’
politicians expected to form the next government - i.e. inviting them for expensive
restaurant meals, in order to explain to them the company's situation and problems.
Agree > k Refuse > f
2. Someone suggests that the easiest way to find out what competitors are doing is
secretly to pay one of their staff to take pictures of their production processes.
Agree >d Refuse > h
3. The manager of a foreign subsidiary explains that to get quick planning
permission to build a new factory it is necessary to give a few cash ‘presents’ to local
officials. $10,000 will save a year of bureaucratic difficulties.
Agree>g Refuse >r
4. Whenever there's a north wind, foul-smelling sulphur dioxide emissions from
one of your factories pollute a nearby town. The local authorities ask you to fit filters on
your chimneys, but this will cost at least $300,000, the equivalent of six months" profit.
Agree >c¢ Refuse >n
5. You could save 15% of your production costs by closing a factory in a small
town where you are a major employer and relocating to a cheaper developing country.
This would result in 1500 people losing their jobs in one town, and 1200 jobs being
created in another.
Relocate >e ~~ Remain > p
6. You discover that one of your suppliers in a developing country employs
children as young as nine years old in its factory, in appalling working conditions. They
say that if you cancel your orders they will have to close the factory and the whole
village will lose this major source of income.
Cancel > m Continue > a
7. Your products are now of a such high quality that they last for at least ten years,
and your sales are consequently lower than they used to be when your products were
less durable. Someone suggests using cheaper components that won't last quite so long.
Pusiness Studies 219


Agree >i Refuse > q
8. You have produced a huge quantity of toys under an exclusive contract to tie in
with a major new
Hollywood movie. But just before the film is released, you discover that pieces of
the toy can be broken off and that young children could swallow them and even choke
to death.
Sell the toy > b Withdraw the toy > j
9. Your major competitor is about to manufacture a product using a revolutionary
new production process. Someone suggests advertising for a Production Manager, even
though the job is not available, hoping your competitor's staff might apply, and give you
some useful information in an interview.
Agree > 0 Refuse >1
VOCABULARY
EXERCISE 1. Match the two parts of these sentences;
1. We are committed to the a. stance, we are always looking to reduce the amount
highest ethical of paper we use”.
2. Is ethical b. lapses came to light, including city managers hiring
3. Th tink their relatives.
. There were questionable a : or
ethical B c. behaviour in business affairs different from everyday
. . behaviour in the family or community?
4 They tightened the citys d. dilemma of whether to disclose to a buyer that the
ethics policy after a string of 5 3
ethical house might soon be demolished to make way for a new
. road.
5. As a bank with a strong e. standards and to promoting our medications only for
ethical 5 :
approved uses”, the company spokesperson said.
6. He's dealing with the £. issues, including whether he helped a company that
ethical hired his brother as a lobbyist.
220 Pusiness Studies


EXERCISE 2. Complete the sentences with expressions in bold from the
following text.
Accountability and transparency
Individuals and organizations should be accountable — completely open about
what they do and able to explain their actions. Dealings — business transactions — should
be transparent — not hidden or secret — and explainable in a way that can be understood
by outsiders. Companies may say that their managers and employees should act with
integrity and, more formally, probity — complete honesty — and that they do not
tolerate any form of professional misconduct. People expect the behaviour of
organizations to be above board — completely open and honest.
1. His lawyers have argued that the transactions were completely above
and approved by the other directors.
2. The code of professional conduct requires directors to act with
and , and to accept that failure to comply carries the threat of fines.
3 It faces the most serious charges of yet brought against a big
accountancy firm, with claims that it deliberately concealed evidence of fraud.
4 We are totally about the methods that we use, so it would be
hard for - and us to hide the fact if we were not giving the correct numbers in our
findings.
5 The city's officials ought to be held far more than they are
today for what they spend and how.
EXERCISE 3. Match the ideas (1-5) in the article with the points (ac) in the
table below.
Corporate social responsibility
Companies have long had codes of ethics and codes of conduct saying how their
managers and employees should behave. Now they are looking at these issues in more
systematic ways. They are designating executives to oversee the whole area of corporate
social responsibility (CSR), which relates to the following areas, among others:
a. employment and community: they want to pay attention to things that affect
the well-being of everyone, not just their employees, in the areas where the company
has its plants, offices and other activities.
Pusiness Studies 221)


b. environmental protection: they want to conduct business in ways that protect
the environment, for example, to ensure that the company does not cause pollution of
the air, rivers, etc. and does not endanger plant and animal life or contribute to climate
change.
c. winning new business: they want, for example, to get business without
engaging in corruption, for example, offering bribes — money given to someone so that
they behave unethically.
Companies want to be seen as good corporate citizens, with activities that are
beneficial not only for their stakeholders but for the community and society as a whole.
CS R: MORE THAN PUBLIC RELATIONS
(1) Global greenhouse gas emissions continue to rise. (2) Disease wreaks
havoc _across_entire continents. A host of seemingly intractable issues confront
governments around the world, who are sometimes unable to effect positive changes.
With the emergence of companies as some of the most powerful institutions for
innovation and social change, more (3) shareholders, regulators, customers and
corporate partners are increasingly interested in understanding the impact of these
organizations’ regular activities upon the community and its natural resources. With the
world’s largest 800 non-financial companies accounting for as much economic output
as the world’s poorest 144 countries, the importance of these organizations in
addressing (4) trade imbalances and income inequality is key. In public opinion
surveys, consumers admit they prefer to buy products and services from companies they
feel are socially responsible (72 per cent) and that they sell the shares of companies that
are not (27 per cent). Challenging the notion that companies’ only responsibility is to
make a profit, executives are increasingly seeking ways to combine (5) economic gain
with social well-being in ways that will produce more customer loyalty, better
relationships with regulators, and many other advantages. CSR practices may, in fact,
prove pivotal to the success of a company.
222 Pusiness: Studies


LISTENING
LISTENING 1: Listen to an interview with Estela Maldonaldo, an
Argentinian entrepreneur who has built a successful chain of ethical beach cafés.
Listen to Part 1 and decide if the following statements are T (true) or F(false).
1. Beach Hut's cafés are well-known for their fair trade coffee.
2. Estela believes socially responsible businesses cannot pay shareholders a lot of
money.
3. Beach Hut's founders wanted to demonstrate that big corporations have their
priorities wrong. 4. Estela believes that happy customers make happy employees.
LISTENING 2: Listen to Part 2 of the previous interview and delete one
incorrect item in italics from each statement.
1. Beach Hut reduces its carbon footprint by using solar panels / biodegradable
packaging / hybrid vehicles.
2. Working with local businesses means Beach Hut can reduce transport costs /
keep prices low / source quality foods.
3. Beach Hut's altruistic values are directly connected to its low taxes / good
image / healthy margins.
4. The company's green image helps them find new customers / shareholders /
employees.
LISTENING 3: Listen again and complete the summary.
Beach Hut helps to protect Argentina's (1) by giving
staff time off work to run educational programmes for (2) . The
company's image has been boosted by winning several (3) for
environmentally friendly businesses; using these green logos on its (4)
and (5) reinforces the message. In this way,
Beach Hut has built a (6) customer-base despite a very business
environment. Customers value the fact that Beach Hut has a (8)
strategy of building (9) businesses, not just looking for quick
profits from a (10) model.
LISTENING 4: Listen to an extract from a management meeting about an
ethical problem and answer the questions.
1. What did Mr Vieri do wrong?
Pusiness Studies 223


2. What is the purpose of the discussion?
3. What do Stan and Jon disagree about?
4. What does Anna decide?
LISTENING 5: Listen to Anna-Kim Hyun-Seung, who you heard in Unit 14,
talking about socially responsible investment, and answer the questions.
1. Which expression about business does Anna-Kim attribute to Milton Friedman?
What does it mean?
2. What assumption is Friedman's argument based on?
3. According to what Anna-Kim says, what do you think 'socially responsible
investment means?
4. How significant does Anna-Kim say socially responsible investment is?
UNIT REVIEW
1. What is corporate responsibility?
2. What do companies need to do to show they exercise good corporate
responsibility?
3. Do you think making huge profits means companies can never be responsible?
4. Can a company survive if it shows no corporate responsibility?
5. Which of the following do you think are especially interesting for a company to
highlight as part of its CSR:
= Good working environment for employees
= A good environmental policy
= Policy of not using child labour, products tested on animals, etc.
= Donating a percentage of profits to good causes
= Employing people at risk of exclusion (for instance, people with disabilities,
single mothers, and unemployed people over the age of 45)
224 Pusiness Studies


WRITING
Task 1: Write an essay of at least 250 words about the following topic.
In the modern business environment, companies are increasingly expected to
engage in socially responsible practices. Some businesses argue that integrating CSR
can lead to long-term profitability and brand loyalty, while others see it as a
distraction from their core profit-generating activities.
Analyze the long-term benefits and challenges of aligning corporate social
responsibility with profit objectives.
Your analysis should consider whether CSR initiatives can enhance a company’s
reputation, customer base, and financial performance, along with the challenges
businesses face in balancing these goals, supported by examples from real-world cases
discussed in your Business Studies Course.
Pusiness Studies 225


Task 2: Write an essay of at least 250 words about the following topic.
Accountability and transparency are crucial elements of Corporate Social
Responsibility (CSR).
Discuss the importance of accountability and transparency in CSR and how they
affect a company’s reputation and stakeholder relationships.
Your discussion should include examples of how companies can demonstrate
accountability and transparency in their CSR practices, as well as the potential
consequences of failing to do so, supported by what you have learned in your Business
Studies Course.
226 Pusiness Studies


UNIT 16
EFFICIENCY AND EMPLOYMENT
ENE sie,
Lo LT
ou _/
a pil
fl oy © a a
LEARNING OBJECTIVES
After you have read and studied this unit, you should be able to
= Understand the potential conflict between business efficiency and employment
= Consider cases of rationalization and downsizing
KEY TERMS
= Job insecurity: The fear that you might lose your job
= Employability: The extent to which a person has skills that employers want
= Downsizing: Decreasing the number of permanent employees
= Core: The central part of something (e.g. a company's workforce)
= Efficiency: a situation in which a person, company, factory, etc. uses resources
such as time, materials, or labour well, without wasting any
= Rationalization: to make a company, way of working, efc. more effective, usually
by combining or stopping particular activities, or by employing fewer people
= redundancy package: all the payments and advantages that a company gives to
workers who have lost their jobs because they are no longer needed
= restructuring: fo organize a company, business, or system in a new way to make it
operate more effectively (noun)
= delocalization: fo move the location of an enterprise (noun)
Pusiness Studies 227,


LEAD- IN
= How important to you is job security?
= How many different employers do you expect to have in your career?
= Would you prefer to have a single full-time job or various part-time activities?
= Which economic sectors are expected to create jobs in your country?
= In which sectors are jobs expected to disappear?
= Is technological progress creating or destroying jobs, on balance?
READING 1:
The post office in a country of about 10 million people has recently been
privatized. Now it wants to become more efficient, so as to be more competitive when
the market is opened to international competition.
There is already a lot of competition for express mail - companies such as DHL,
FedEx and UPS - but the law will soon allow post offices to compete for local business
in other countries, e.g. delivering mail to businesses and homes in large cities.
Furthermore, the volume of mail has decreased by 10% in the past ten years, and is
expected to decrease by another 10% Since the spread of email and electronic
signatures, the amount of intercompany mail has declined by over 60%, but commercial
mail still represents 85% of the post office's turnover.
There is already a plan to close 25% of post offices - the smaller, unprofitable
ones in small towns and villages. Now the post office wants to reduce the number of
sorting offices from the existing 25, spread all over the country, to three.
The plan is to build three large new sorting offices on cheap land outside big
cities, with good access to railways and motorways. They would be of equal size, in the
west, centre and east of the country. They would use new automated machines.
The restructuring would save €200 million a year in salaries and increase
efficiency.
The number of sorting staff would be reduced from 10,000 to about 5,500,
although many of them would now have to work at night and would have to travel
further to work. The post office would try to find jobs for the other 4,500 people
elsewhere in the organization (in post offices and in technical and maintenance jobs). It
is also promising a €100 million redundancy package and training programmes.
228 Pusiness Studies


The trade unions are obviously against this proposal, and so are the local
governments in areas where many jobs would be lost. Between them, they have put
forward various alternative plans, whereby the post office builds five, six or eight new
centres instead of only three, or three main ones but also several secondary ones, in
order to preserve jobs all over the country. On the contrary, the local governments in the
areas where the three new centres are planned are wholly in favour of the project.
Comprehension
1. What does the post office want to do?
2. Why do they say this is necessary?
3. What are the advantages and disadvantages?
4. Who is for and who is against the plan?
Discussion: The postal service
- In your country, is the postal service public or private? (i.e. is it a nationalized
industry or a private company with shareholders?)
- Is it profitable? Is it a monopoly?
- What do you know about post offices in other countries?
- Should everybody have the right to the same postal services, whether they live in
a large city, or in a very remote part of the countryside?
- If a business is considered to offer a public service, should it be allowed to
rationalize or restructure or downsize or outsource or delocalize?
READING 2: Read the following text and fill in the gaps with the words from
the box.
competition core created decision-making delaying
demand dismiss employ globalization merged
outsource recession reports sub-contractors temporary
Redundancy
There are several verbs in English that mean to (1) one or more new
members of staff, including to hire, to engage, to appoint, and to take on. Significantly,
there are a far greater number of verbs and expressions that mean to dismiss staff.
Pusiness Studies 229


If you do something wrong, your employer can sack you (or give you the sack) or
fire you. Other idioms include “to give someone the boot”, or “the elbow” or “the
chop”. But even if you have done nothing wrong, your employer can easily choose to
lay you off or make you redundant, i.e. to (2) you because you are no
longer needed. There are various reasons why companies might need fewer staff:
«because they have taken over, or been taken over by, or (3) with,
another company, in which case existing jobs can often be combined;
+ because they are suffering from declining sales in a (4) H
+ because hiring (5) staff - people doing occasional, casual, part-
time work; people on short, fixed-term contracts; and people working for
employment agencies - allows a company to respond to fluctuations in (6)
«because they are experiencing greater (7) following deregulation
and the (8) of the world economy;
because (9) , i.e. flattening the organizational structure by stripping
the hierarchy of several levels of middle managers, might make (10)
quicker and easier;
* because many companies find it cheaper to concentrate on their central or (11)
activities, and to contract out or (12) other services
from specialized external companies;
« and because jobs that were formerly done by several people can now be done
by a single computer.
Yet in their press releases and annual (13) , most companies do not
write that "we have laid off 50 members of staff." They generally prefer other
expressions and phrases, such as re-engineering or re-structuring the corporation, or
refocusing business strategy, or right-sizing, or down-sizing, or de-hiring, or
outplacement, or readjusting the company's skill mix, or increasing capital
effectiveness, or tightly controlling operating costs, and so on.
Yet whatever they call it, many large companies are employing fewer and fewer
staff. Most of the jobs currently being (14) are in small and medium-sized
companies, including those acting as (15) to larger organizations.
230 Pusiness Studies


CASE STUDY 1: Work in small groups and read the following text:
ANNA-KIM HYUN-SEUNG: I have one example which is a Korean company.
It's called Yuhan-Kimberly and it's a form of a joint venture between Yuhan, a local
company, and Kimberly Clark in the United States. So Yuhan-Kimberly is a local
player; they are the market leader in their industry, and they make toilet paper, tissues,
and sanitary items. Within South Korea, they are probably one of the most respected
companies because of their very consistent corporate social responsibility policies and
practice. For example, in 1984, they launched the very first nationwide environmental
campaign, which was about developing forests. The company really tried to commit
itself to social and responsible causes.
I don't exactly remember the year, but at some point the company had problems
and they had the situation that they needed to cut down the total number of working
hours, and what they chose was instead of cutting down the number of employees they
cut down the number of average working hours, so they actually changed their shift
system. Before the change, it was three teams, three shifts, but they changed it into four
teams, two shifts, and I think each worker worked consecutively four days, 48 hours, 12
hours each day, and they took off four days, and one of the four days was committed to
a training programme operated by the company. It was part of their lifelong learning
programme as well, so I think the employees responded in very good ways because for
them it was obviously a much better choice than losing their job, and it was also a
training opportunity. Also after this change, there was a big increase in productivity
because obviously, the workers could have the proper rest for three or four days.
Do you think the situation described here is exceptional, or could more
companies do the same thing?
CASE STUDY 2
Renault and Nissan have a strong partnership in automobiles. Their partnership
made a remarkable achievement of making up 10% of new car sales worldwide.
Renault and Nissan chose to make an alliance rather than a merger because an
alliance has many stronger benefits than a merger would give.
With an alliance, they can access more geographical areas where foreign
investments are restricted. These companies got better chances to enter each other’s
territory where they were already established companies because of the alliance.
Although they faced numerous challenges including fluctuation in price share,
they managed to resolve issues and succeed.
Pusiness Studies: 231


Study the case of Renault and Nissan and answer the following questions:
1. What happens when small businesses collaborate with other businesses?
2. Can partnership enable the involved parties to take benefit from each other’s
strong areas?
VOCABULARY
EXERCISE 1. Match up the words in the table with the definitions below.
casual work contract work job sharing
relocation or delocalization delayering outsourcing or contracting-out
rightsizing downsizing flexible labour market
rationalization or restructuring
1. a situation in which it is easy for companies to hire non-permanent staff
2. decreasing the number of permanent employees working for an organization
3. using other businesses as subcontractors to supply components or services
4. employing two or more people on a part-time basis to perform a job normally
available to one person working full time
5. moving some of a business's activities (e.g. accounting, production) to another
place or country
6. removing unproductive parts of the management hierarchy to make
organizations more flexible and efficient
7. reorganizing a company, business or system in a new way to reduce costs and
improve efficiency and effectiveness
8. temporary employment by an organization to do a specific project or piece of work
9. temporary employment that is not regular or fixed
10. another way of saying downsizing, though it could also describe increasing the
size of an organization, perhaps as an attempt to correct a previous downsizing
232 Pusiness Studies


EXERCISE 2. Which of the following words have a similar meaning to
employ someone, and which means the same as to dismiss someone?
appoint engage fire hire lay off let go
make redundant recruit sack take on
Are there any differences among the words in the different groups?
EXERCISE 3. Fill the gaps in the sentences with words from exercises 1 & 2
above.
1. As an IT specialist, I mainly do for local companies,
two or three months at a time.
2: is expensive for employers, as having two members of
staff instead of one involves extra costs.
3. Big companies abolished a lot of middle management positions by
in the 1980s.
4. We our accounting and IT services to Indian companies last
year, but we would never our manufacturing.
5. When they the company, 1,000 people were made
LISTENING
LISTENING 1: Listen to the conversation between Jackie Branigan, head of
HR at the U.K. head office of a large European manufacturing company, and
David Grundy, her recruitment officer. Tick the types of recruitment sources they
mention.
0 National newspapers O Recruitment agencies
0 Company intranet 0 Trade magazines
0 Local newspapers O Internet
0 Word of mouth 0 International business magazines
Pusiness: Studies: 233)


y / »
Ha | by A
ant #
Ji Fa
fo ft
A, ~~
LISTENING 2: Listen again and decide whether the following statements
about the conversation are true (T) or false (F)
1. Jackie is responsible for the recruitment of the personnel in Madrid.
2. Francisco Menendez is general manager of the Madrid office.
3. The personnel officer they are looking for must have 2-5 years' generalist HR
experience.
4. Applicants should have either a qualification in human resources management
or a university degree.
5. English is not important for the job.
6. David is confident that they will have good applicants from inside the company.
7. There are not many job advertisements in the Spanish HR paper.
8. David is offering applicants interviews in the U.K. and in Madrid.
9. They are looking for a personnel officer because of a recent merger.
10. Jackie will conduct the interviews.
LISTENING 3: Listen to Anna-Kim Hyun-Seung talking about alternatives
to laying off employees, and answer the questions.
1. What do companies normally do when they increase their efficiency?
2. What is the alternative that Anna-Kim Hyun-Seung mentions?
3. What were the consequences for the employees in the case mentioned?
234 Pusiness Studies:


LISTENING 4: Listen to Anna-Kim talking
about a Korean company, and answer the
questions.
1. What do Yuhan-Kimberly do? ¥ i
2. Why do they have a good reputation? (
3. What was the company's solution to the 3 ” el ;
roblem they faced? ——35k
pi of = 1 ¢
4. What were the consequences? .
Anna-Kim Hyun-Seung
UNIT REVIEW
1. Do you think restructuring can help a business become more efficient?
2. What is delocalization?
3. How can you interpret the term “business efficiency”?
4. What is the purpose of rationalization?
5. What does “redundancy package” mean?
6. What notable cases of restructuring or downsizing or delocalizing have there
been in the news recently? What was the reaction?
7. In a situation where there is growing unemployment, what are the advantages
and disadvantages of the following partial solutions?
- job sharing
- decreasing working hours
- lowering the age of retirement
- staff training programmes
- increasing the number of public sector jobs (i.e. those paid for by the national or
local government)
Pusiness Skudies 235


WRITING
Task 1: Write an essay of at least 250 words about the following topic.
Improving workplace efficiency is essential for reducing costs, increasing
productivity, and enhancing competitiveness.
Discuss strategies for improving workplace efficiency, such as:
= Process improvement and automation
= Effective communication and collaboration
= Employee motivation and engagement
= Flexible work arrangements
Provide examples of companies that have successfully implemented efficiency
improvement initiatives, supported by examples from what you have learned in your
Business Studies Course.
236 Pusiness Studies


Task 2: Write an essay of at least 250 words about the following topic.
Redundancy is often a result of various factors within an organization.
Understanding these reasons is crucial for addressing the impacts of redundancy
effectively.
Discuss the primary reasons for redundancy in modem businesses and their
implications for employees and the organization.
Your discussion should include how factors such as economic pressures,
technological changes, and strategic shifts lead to redundancy, as well as the
consequences for affected employees and the organization’s operational efficiency.
Provide examples from your Business Studies Course to illustrate these points.
Pusiness Studies 237


UNIT 17
INTERNATIONAL TRADE
LEARNING OBJECTIVES
After you have read and studied this unit, you 5 NG
should be able to — ERE
: L
= Understand the theory of free trade oo TRADE a.
= Discuss the advantages and disadvantages of 3 a
international trade \ = a &
KEY TERMS
= International trade: Purchase, sale, or exchange of goods and services across
national borders.
= Free trade: a frade policy that does not restrict imports or exports. It can also be
understood as the free market idea applied fo international trade.
= Protectionism: the economic policy of restraining trade between nations, through
methods such as tariffs on imported goods, restrictive quotas, and a variety of other
restrictive government regulations designed to discourage imports, and prevent
foreign take-over of local markets and companies.
= Trade barriers: Government laws, regulations, policies or practices that either
protect domestic products from foreign competition or artificially stimulate exports of
particular domestic products.
= Tariff: A duty (or tax) levied upon goods transported from one Customs area to
another, for either protective or revenue purposes. Tariffs raise the prices of imported
goods, thus making them generally less competitive within the market of the
importing country, unless that country does not produce the items so tariffed.
* Quota: Restriction on the amount (measured in units or weight) of a good that can
enter or leave a country during a certain period of fime.
= Absolute advantage: Ability of a nation to produce a good more efficiently than
any other nation.
28 Gompardtyalodvantogeinabliyichiainaioniiel prodicalaloood meri sHicleniys
238 Pusiness Studies


than other nations, but an ability fo produce that good more efficiently than it does
any other good.
= An infant industry: a new industry, which in its early stages experiences relative
difficulty or is absolutely incapable of competing with established competitors abroad.
® A strategic industry: an industry which is essential for the promotion or stabilization
of the growth of the locality in which that industry is situated.
LEAD- IN
® Look around you. How many things can you see that were imported from
another country?
= How much of the food you've eaten in the last 24 hours came from abroad?
= What are your country's major trading partners?
= What are your country's most important exports?
= Does your country try to restrict imports?
READING 1:
Education and protection
The Korean economist Ha-Joon Chang is the author of several books including
Bad Samaritans - Guilty Secrets of Rich Nations and the Threat to Global Prosperity.
Here is part of an interview about this book. Read it and answer the questions below.
To explain this idea in the book I use the example of my young son. This little guy
is perfectly capable of making a living. He's already eight now, but when I wrote the
book he was six. Millions of children work in developing countries from the age of four
or five, as did millions of children in rich countries in the 19th and early 20th centuries.
Maybe I should send my son to the labour market and make him get a job. If he can earn
his own living, that's a lot of money saved for me. But more importantly, this will
expose him to competition and make him a very productive person.
Well, of course, I don't do this. He is quite a clever kid and maybe if I support him
for another 12 or 15 years, he could become a software engineer or brain surgeon or
nuclear physicist. Of course, there's a danger that he might turn out to be a total waste of
time, but that's a risk I'm willing to take. know for sure that if I kick him into the labour
market now, he will become a shoe-shine boy, and will maybe grow up to be a street
hawker, but he will never be a brain surgeon or a nuclear physicist.
Pusiness: Studies 239


The analogy is: When you are trying to get into a more difficult and thereby
higher-return activity, developing countries have to invest in it. The investment comes
in the form of protection, which makes, for the moment, your local consumer use
expensive and inferior domestic products. But unless you do that, these industries are
not going to grow. you accept that you will use inferior products from inefficient
producers for the time being. In the meantime, you do certain things to make sure that
these firms grow up, i.e. they increase their productivity and eventually give you
cheaper domestic goods, create jobs and stimulate other activities. In the end, you are
better off that way.
So, inefficiency is part of the deal. Only you are deliberately creating these
inefficiencies With the view of becoming even more efficient than otherwise possible.
Comprehension:
1. Explain in detail the analogy Chang makes between child labour and free trade
(or between education and protectionism).
2. What is the short-term disadvantage of protecting growing industries?
Discussion:
* Which industries or sectors could be usefully protected in your country until
they had a comparative advantage?
« To what extent would you be prepared to use inferior, expensive products from
inefficient producers? What if you thought this “might turn out to be a total waste of
time”?
Vocabulary: Before discussing arguments for and against free trade, match up
these words and definitions.
Copyright dumping generic subsidize trademark
1. a cheaper copy of a product that is not marked with the producer's name
2. a name or a symbol showing that a product is made by a particular producer and
which cannot be legally used by anyone else
3. selling unwanted goods very cheaply, usually in other countries
4. the legal right to control the production and selling of a book, play, film,
photograph, piece of music, etc.
5. to pay part of the cost of something
240 Pusiness Studies


READING 2: Read the text and answer the following questions
1. Why do most economists oppose protectionism?
2. Why do most governments impose import tariffs and/ or quotas?
3. Why were many developing countries for a long time opposed to GATT?
4. Why have many developing countries recently reduced protectionism and
increased their international trade?
5. What can give a country an absolute or comparative advantage in goods and
services over other producers?
6. Why does the theory of comparative advantage seem inadequate to explain
international trade?
PROTECTIONISM AND FREE TRADE
The majority of economists believe in the comparative cost principle, which
proposes that all nations will raise their living standards and real income if they
specialize in the production of those goods and services in which they have the highest
relative productivity. Nations may have an absolute or comparative advantage in
producing goods and services because of factors of production (notably raw materials),
climate, division of labour, economies of scale, and so forth.
This theory explains why there is international trade between North and South,
e.g. semiconductors going from the USA to Brazil, and coffee going in the opposite
direction. But it does not explain the fact that over 75% of the exports of the advanced
industrial countries go to other similar advanced nations, with similar resources, wage
rates, and levels of technology, education, and capital. It is more a historical accident
than a result of natural resources that the US leads in building aircraft, semiconductors,
computers and software, while Germany makes luxury automobiles, machine tools and
cameras.
However, the economists who recommend free trade do not face elections every
four or five years. Democratic governments do, which often encourages them to impose
tariffs and quotas in order to protect what they see as strategic industries- notably
agriculture-without which the country would be in danger if there was a war, as well as
other jobs. Abandoning all sectors in which a country does not have a comparative
advantage is likely to lead to structural unemployment in the short (and sometimes
medium and long) term.
Other reasons for imposing tariffs include the following:
Pusiness: Studies 241


= to make imports more expensive than home-produced substitutes, and thereby
reduce a balance of payments deficit;
= as protection against dumping (the selling of goods abroad at below-cost price
in order to destroy or weaken competitors or to earn foreign currency to pay for
necessary imports);
= to retaliate against restrictions imposed by other countries;
= to protect ‘infant industries’ until they are large enough to achieve economies
of scale and strong enough to compete internationally.
= with tariffs, it is impossible to know the quantity that will be imported, because
prices might be elastic. With quotas, governments can set a limit on imports.
Yet unlike tariffs, quotas provide no revenue for the government. Other non-
tariff barriers that some countries use include so-called safety norms, and the
deliberate creation of customs, difficulties, and delays.
The General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade (GATT), an international
organization set up in 1947, had the objectives of encouraging international trade,
making tariffs the only form of protectionism, and of reducing these as much as
possible. The most favoured nation clause of the Gatt agreement specified that countries
could not have favoured trading partners, but had to grant equally favourable conditions
to all trading partners. The final Gatt agreement- including services, copyright, and
investment, as well as trade in goods- was signed in Marrakech in 1994, and the
organization was superseded by the World Trade Organization.
It took nearly 50 years to arrive at the final Gatt agreement because, until the
1980s, most developing countries opposed free trade. They wanted to industrialize in
order to counteract what they rightly saw as an inevitable fall in commodity prices.
They practised import substitution (producing and protecting goods that cost more than
those made abroad) and imposed high tariff barriers to protect their infant industries.
Nowadays, however, many developing countries have huge debts with Western
commercial banks on which they are unable to pay the interest, let alone repay the
principal. Thus, they need to rollover (or renew) the loans, reschedule (or postpone)
repayments, or borrow further money from the International Monetary Fund, often just
to pay the interest on existing loans. Under these circumstances, the IMF imposes
severe conditions, usually including the obligation to export as much as possible.
Quite apart from IMF pressure, Third World governments are aware of the export
successes of the East Asian ‘Tiger’ economies (Hong Kong, Singapore, South Korea,
242 Pusiness: Studies:


and Taiwan), and of the collapse of the Soviet economic model. They were afraid of
being excluded from the work trading system by the development of trading blocks such
as the European Union, finalized by the Maastricht Treaty, and the North American
Free Trade Agreement (NAFTA), both signed in the early 1990s. So, they tended to
liberalize their economies, lowering trade barriers and opening up to international trade.
CASE STUDY 1
Three countries, X, Y and Z, trade with each other. The government of Country X
is worried about the high level of imports from the other two countries. The government
of Country Y wants to encourage the two other countries to join a common currency.
The currency of Country Z has recently appreciated against the currencies of the other
two countries.
a) State one way in which Country X could reduce imports from the other two
countries.
b) Explain two ways in which businesses in Country X might be affected by the
government reducing imports.
c) Do you think that businesses in these three countries would benefit from a
common (single) currency? Explain your answer.
CASE STUDY 2
For and against free trade
Although many economists favour free trade, there is also a lot of opposition,
there have been huge and violent protests at meetings of the World Trade Organization
(WTO).
- Classify the following statements (A-N): which are in favour of, and which are
against free trade and the policies of the WTO?
- Which set of arguments do you find the most convincing?
A. Free trade and international supply chains lead to peace and stability.
B. WTO policies prohibit developing countries from protecting infant industries
until they are internationally competitive, although the rich countries that
dominate international trade all did this.
C. Free trade guarantees the largest possible foreign markets for producers and
exporters.
Pusiness Studies 243


D. The WTO defends Trade Related Intellectual Property rights (TRIPs), granting
pharmaceutical companies patents, copyrights and trademarks which deny poor
countries access to lifesaving medicines and generic drugs.
E. Free trade guarantees consumers the lowest possible prices.
F. Lowering trade barriers also breaks down other barriers between peoples and
nations.
G. The price of exported goods does not reflect the environmental cost of
transporting them.
H. Instead of promoting internationally recognized labour and environmental
standard., free trade makes it easier for production to go where the labour is
cheapest and environmental costs are low.
I. Free trade, comparative advantage and specialization always lead to economic
growth and development.
J. Total world trade in 2000 was 22 times higher than in 1450, and as a result,
people were much more prosperous.
K. The WTO classifies most environmental, labour, health and safety protection
laws as illegal barriers to trade; it has ruled against the US Clean Air Act and
parts of the US Endangered Species Act.
L. Free trade ensures secure supplies and a greater choice of components and raw
materials for producers, and of products and services for consumers.
M.The WTO has ruled that governments cannot take into account “non-
commercial values” such as human rights, opposing child labour, etc.
N. WTO policies allow rich countries to dump heavily subsidized industrially
produced food in poor countries, which damages local production.
wwe | | [TT TT]
pone | [| [ [ |
244 Pusiness Studies:


VOCABULARY
EXERCISE 1. Match each term to its correct definition.
: a. A type of protectionist measure that sets a numerical limit on
1. Barriers to trade the imports allowed into a country over a specified time period.
2. Dumping b. International trade without any protectionist barriers between
countries.
3. Embargo c. The act of selling exports at artificially low prices, below
those charged by domestic firms, and often at less than the costs
4. Free trade of production.
5. Globalization d. Import taxes imposed on foreign goods and services.
e. A type of trade protectionist measure banning the trade of a
6. Infant industries | certain good, or banning trade with a particular country.
y f. Obstructions to free trade, imposed by a government to
To tivo feity safeguard national interests by reducing the competitiveness of
8. A multinational foreign firms.
corporation (MNC) |8 The process by which the world's economies become
increasingly interdependent and interconnected.
9. Protection h. An organization that operates in two or more countries.
10. Quota i. The use of trade barriers to safeguard a country from
é excessive international trade and foreign competition.
11. Subsidies k. Financial support from the government to lower the
production costs of domestic firms, thereby improving their
12. Tariffs competitiveness.
1. The exchange of goods and services beyond national borders.
m. New, unestablished businesses that need protection from
foreign competitors.
EXERCISE 2. Complete the text about Incoterms with the words in the box.
Notice the glossary at the bottom.
clearance customs documentation freight truck
handling loading premises terminal transit
What are Incoterms?
Incoterms state the responsibilities of buyer and seller in relation to marine
transportation - not just the shipping costs, but all other associated costs such as
insurance, (1) duties, and ground (2) .
Pusiness Studies 245


The buyer pays for the sea crossing
A price quoted EXW is where the seller makes the goods available at their own
3) , and the buyer collects them there. The buyer has responsibility for
all the other transport costs and risks from that point onwards.
If the price is FAS, then the seller also covers the cost of inland transport (by (4)
or rail) to the port of shipment, and of unloading the containers onto
the dock. The buyer pays for (5) onto the ship plus all the costs from
that point.
FOB is almost the same, except here the seller pays for loading onto the ship, not
the buyer.
The seller pays for the sea crossing
Now the goods are on the ship. If the price has been set so that the seller also pays
the (6) (= goods and the system of moving these goods) costs, then
there are further Incoterms to be used.
With CFR the seller pays the freight costs and handles the export (7)
(= paperwork), but does not pay the insurance while the goods are in
®) at sea. With CIF the seller pays insurance as well. But in both cases,
their responsibility ends at the port of destination, while the goods are still on board.
The buyer has responsibility for unloading fees, local storage at a (9) .
the import licence, duties and taxes, the customs broker's fees and onward delivery to
the buyer's own premises.
In the final case, DDP, it's the seller who pays for everything, and who also has to
handle any customs (10) problems. The buyer has no additional costs
or risks at all - but of course, the price quoted in the contract will reflect this!
246 Pusiness Studies


EXERCISE 3. Match up these words and expressions with the definitions
below
1. trade in goods A. autarky
2. trade in services (banking, insurance, tourism, and so on) | B. deficit
3. direct exchanges of goods, without the use of money C. quotas
4. the difference between what a country receives and D. bal n pa
pays for its exports and imports of goods SOR ECE Se DEYInER
5. the difference between a country’s total earnings from E. dumping
exports and its total expenditure on imports F. surplus
6. the (impossible) situation in which a country is G. balance of trade
completely self-sufficient and has no foreign trade Lr ae
7. apositive balance of trade or payments and exports
8. anegative balance of trade or payments I taste
9. selling goods abroad at (or below) cost price K. visible trade (GB) or
10. imposing trade barriers in order to restrict imports merchandise trade (US)
11. taxes charged on imports Abie or conater
12. quantitative limits on the import of particular products | trade
or commodities del
M. protectionism
LISTENING
LISTENING 1: Listen to three negotiation extracts.
What went wrong in each case? Think about high- and low-context cultures, as
well as the actual phrases used.
LISTENING 2: Listen to alternative versions of the three negotiations.
How do the negotiators avoid misunderstandings?
LISTENING 3: Listen to the first part of the
interview with Paul Smith, a marketing specialist.
What questions should you consider before entering an
overseas market?
LISTENING 4: Listen to the second part of the interview. —
What problems or challenges does Paul Smith mention? Paul Smith
Pusiness Studies 247


LISTENING 5: Listen to Michael Kitson talking about the consequences of
free trade, and answer the questions.
1. What are the problems with { pe— \
economic models? F | L
2. What is the standard argument for i
free trade? -
3. What is the example Kitson gives? * & A, 7 iki
4. Who loses in this example, and why? a | J \d N47 ; %
5. What is Kitson's suggested < NG Mn pl
alternative to "unfettered free trade?
Michael Kitson
UNIT REVIEW
1. Discuss whether imposing tariffs will benefit the domestic economy?
2. Explain the difference between international trade and free trade.
3. Identify three methods of trade protection that a country could use.
4. Explain two benefits of free trade.
5. Describe two disadvantages of international trade.
6. Explain two reasons why countries might decide to trade with each other.
248 Pusiness Studies


WRITING
Task 1: Write an essay of at least 250 words about the following topic.
Despite the benefits of free trade, governments often impose barriers to protect
domestic industries or achieve other policy objectives.
Discuss different types of trade barriers, such as tariffs, quotas, and subsidies.
Analyze the arguments for and against protectionist trade policies. Provide
examples from your Business Studies Course to illustrate these points.
Pusiness Studies 249


Task 2:
‘Write an essay of at least 250 words about the following topic.
Globalization has led to increased interconnectedness and interdependence
among nations.
Discuss the benefits and challenges of globalization for businesses and economies,
considering:
«Access to new markets and consumers
« Increased competition
o Outsourcing and offshoring
¢ Cultural exchange and diversity
Analyze the impact of globalization on developed and developing countries,
supported by examples from what you have learned in your Business Studies Course.
250 Pusiness Studies


Pusiness Studies 251


NHA XUAT BAN DAN TRi
$89, Ngo 26, Phd Hoang Cau, Quan Péng Da, Ha Noi
VPGD: $6 278 Ton Dic Thing, Quin Déng Da, Ha Noi
DT: (024) 66860751 - (024) 66860752
Email: nxbdantri@gmail.com
Website: nxbdantri.com.vn
Chiu trach nhiém xudt ban
BUI THI HUONG
Chiu trach nhiém ngi dung
LE QUANG KHOI
Bién tap: NGUYEN BICH NGQC
Thiét ké bia: NGUYEN MINH CHAU
Ché ban: NGUYEN MINH CHAU
POI TAC LIEN KET
Cong ty TNHH Tre Xanh
In 1.500 ban, khé 18x25.5 cm, tai Cong ty TNHH Tre Xanh.
Dia chi: X6m 4, Quynh Dd, Vinh Quynh, Thanh Tri, Ha Noi.
S6 xéc nhan dang ky xuit ban sb: 3258-2024/CXBIPH/15-136/DT.
Quyét dinh xudt ban sb: 2868/QDXB/NXBDT ngay 16 thang 9 nim 2024.
In xong va ndp luu chiéu nam 2024.
Mi ISBN: 978-604-40-4985-4.





English for
Business Studies
ny
